Panther Central - Panther Cards - Photo ID
pitt home
panther central home
find people
contact us
Panther Card
FAQ
Photo ID
Access to Services
Panther Funds
Lost Cards
Panther Central / Panther Card /
Photo ID
Every student, faculty, and staff member at the University of Pittsburgh receives a photo ID card at Panther Central in the Litchfield Towers lobby. Your Panther Card is your photo ID and a whole lot more. The magnetic strip on your Panther Card is programmed to give you access to your residence hall, your Meal Plan, and other facilities and services on and off campus.
Panther Card Self Service Photo Upload
Your Panther Card (Pitt ID) is the one tool that every student, faculty and staff member needs to have on their first day.
Submit your photo to us in advance and allow us to prepare your Pitt ID for you!
Online photo submission is quick and easy; IDs are typically processed in one day. To obtain a preprinted ID, new students, faculty and staff must submit their photo at least one full business day prior to arrival on campus.
Your Pitt ID declares you as a member of the Pitt community and is your passport to access essential campus services. Therefore, you will be required to show an official government-issued photo ID when you pick-up your card. Be sure to check your University email account to verify the status of your Pitt ID.
Online Photo Submission is a convenience that Panther Central offers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Launch Panther Card Self Service Photo Upload View Frequently Asked Questions
Acceptable and Unacceptable Photo Submissions
Acceptable Photo Submissions
Current (taken within the last six months) color photo
JPG format
Neutral color and smooth background
Proper lighting (#nofilter)
Centered and front view of full face
Cropped from just above the top of the head to the collarbone
Eyes open and visible
Wear prescription glasses if you normally do so
Maximum file size of 5 MB (5120 KB)
Minimum dimensions of 260 x 300 pixels
Unacceptable Photo Submissions
Wearing hats, sunglasses or other items that obscure the face
Glare on glasses; closed eyes
Shadows on the face
Other visible people, objects, or text
Inappropriate expressions
Group photos
Blurry photos
Black and white photos
Photos with your hand resting on your face
Crop off the top of your head or side angle your face
Tips for a Successful Photo Submission
1. To achieve a neutral colored, smooth background, you can use:
Poster board
Blank wall
Correct
Incorrect
2. To achieve clear image quality, avoid images that are:
Dark or shadowed
Distorted or blurry
Too small (less than 260x300 pixels)
Generally, you can right-click a photo and view the size under Properties.
Or you can use a photo editing program to view the file size.
Correct
Incorrect
3. Avoid photos with other visible people or objects.
Correct
Incorrect
Preferred Name- Now Available for Students
The University of Pittsburgh recognizes the need
or preference for students to refer to themselves by a “preferred name”other
than their legal given or first and/or middle name. If you are interested in
using a "preferred name" on campus, please review this statement from the Registrar for more detailed information. If you
have any "Preferred Name" related questions, please contact the Registrar.
Your preferred name will be available at Panther Central within 24 hours after you update your information.
Add a Preferred Name Process
1.  Login to the
my.pitt.edu portal
2. Click “Manage My
Account”
3. Click “Contact
Information”
4. Click “Click here to set
your Preferred Name”
5. Click Yes when “Do you
want to set your preferred name?” question displays
6. Add your preferred first
and preferred middle (optional) names
Upon arriving at Panther
Central, you will be asked to exchange your current Panther Card for your
updated ID with your preferred name. There is no cost for your first
"preferred name" Pitt ID. All other Panther Card reprints due to
additional preferred name updates, lost/stolen IDs, will result in a $20 fee.
Please remember that if asked to show your ID as a form of
identification, your ID will have your preferred name on the front and your
legal name on the back.
Photo ID Hours
To get your Panther Card, bring valid photo identification (for
example, a driver's license or passport) to Panther Central, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
General ID Guidelines
Here you'll find guidelines for some of the most commonly asked ID eligibility questions.
Lost Your Card?
Report lost or stolen cards to Panther
Central immediately at the Panther Central Online Community at https://my.pitt.edu.
Your card will be automatically deactivated.
Popular Links
Menus
Housing Options
my.pitt.edu
Bus Schedules
Saferider
Buses Home
Panther Funds
Publications and Forms
For quick access to important Housing and Dining documents as well as frequently used forms, please visit the publications page!
Questions, Suggestions & Feedback
Have a question, comment or suggestion? Please drop us a line and let us know how we can help you. We'd especially love to know if you have comments or suggestions about how we can improve our services for you.
Meet your Housing and Panther Central Team
Get to know your Housing and PC Team. Our entire team is full time staff and many of us are Pitt graduates.
Panther Central is your go-to place for all the essentials of daily living, from transportation to housing to finding a good meal.
Links
Panther Central
Panther Card
Dining Services
Housing Services
Buses & Shuttles
Residence Life
Twitter
Facebook
Tweets by @PantherCentral
You're Browser Does Not Support Frames
Copyright Â©
Financial Information Systems
End -->