International Journal of Current Research and
Academic Review-e-iSSN - 2347 - 3215
HOME
Home
Editorial Board
Guide to Authors
Current Issue
Special Issue
Archives
Indexing
Submit Article
Contact us
IJCRAR is now DOI (CrossRef) registered Research Journal. The DOIs are assigned to all published IJCRAR Articles.
INDEXED IN INDEX COPERNICUS - ICI Journals Master List 2016 - IJCRAR--ICV 2016: 81.15
For
more details click here
Latest News
Volume 6-Issue 2 February 2018 Published
Aim & Scope
The International Journal of Current Research and Academic Review(ISSN 2347 -
3215) aims at the
publication of original research, reviews and short communications on the
latest developments in all fields of Science & Humanities and Engineering
technology. The journal publishes original papers in English which contribute
to the understanding of science and Humanities and also developments of the
engineering technology and education. Papers may be theoretical, experimental
or both. The contribution should be unpublished before and not under
consideration for publication elsewhere.
The Journal is a peer reviewed
international journal publishing high-quality articles dedicated to all aspects
of Science and Humanities and Engineering technology. The Journal considers
only manuscripts that have not been published (or submitted simultaneously), at
any language, elsewhere. The Journal is issued only in electronic form.
Subject areas for
suitable for publications include:
Life Sciences
•Biological
Sciences, •Biochemistry, •Genetics, •Environmental Science, •Immunology and Microbiology,
•Cellular Microbiology, •Environmental Microbiology, •Medical Microbiology,
•Industrial Microbiology, •Soil and Agricultural, •Microbial Genetics,
•Microbial Ecology, •Vermitechnology, •Medicinal Plants, •Biotechnology, •Pharmacology
Science, •Botany, •Cellbiology, •Conservation biology, •Developmental biology,
•Ecology, •Evolutionary biology, •Evolutionary genetics, •Food science,
•Genetics, •Genomics, •Immunology, •Marine biology, •Molecular biology,
•Parasitology, •Pathology, •Pharmacogenomics, •Pharmacology, •Physiology,
•Population dynamics, •Proteomics, •Structural biology, •Systems biology,
•Zoology.
Physical Sciences
•Chemical
Engineering, •Chemistry, •Computer Science, •Earth and Planetary Science, •Energy,
•Mathematics, •Physics and Astronomy, Engineering, •Material Science, •Statistics, •Comparison of chemistry and physics,
•Natural and physical sciences, •Earth science,
•Biophysics,
•Mathematics and
Computer Science Research,  •Pure and Applied Chemistry,  •Geology and Mining Research, •Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology,  •Internet and Information Systems, •Oceanography and Marine Science,•Petroleum
Technology and Alternative Fuels
Health Science
•Medicine and Dentistry, •Nursing and Health
Professions, •Pharmacology and Toxicology,
•Pharmaceutical Science •Veterinary Science •Veterinary Medicine, •Nutrition
and Metabolism,  •Cancer Research and
Experimental Oncology,  •Clinical
Pathology and Forensic, Medicine,  •Diabetes
and Endocrinology,  •Infectious Diseases
and Immunity,  •Medical Laboratory and
Diagnosis,  •Neuroscience and Behavioral
Health,  •Public Health and Epidemiology,
•Medical Case Studies, •Medical Practice and Reviews
Social
Science and Humanities
•Arts and Humanities, •Business Management,
•Management Accounting, •Decision, •Economics, •Econometrics, •Finance, Anthropology,
•Communication studies,   •Human
geography, •History, •Political science, •Public administration,   •Psychology,    •Sociology, •Geography and Regional
Planning, •Hospitality Management and Tourism, •Sociology and Anthropology,
•Public Administration and Policy Research, •Social Psychology, •Social
Sciences by publishing original research work, short communications and review
articles.
Agriculture Science
•Agricultural Economics, •Agricultural Engineering, •Agricultural Extension •Agronomy Animal Science, •Water Resource Management, •Agricultural Biotechnology, •Agricultural Microbiology, •Agricultural Botany, •Soil Science, •Plant Breeding, •Plant and Agricultural
Technology, •Entomology,  •Environmental Science, •Crop Science, •Horticulture, •Plant Pathology, •Plant Breeding, •Forestry and all
agricultural science.
Engineering and Technology
•Computer
Science and Engineering, •Electrical Engineering, •Civil Engineering, •Infrastructure
Engineering, •Electronics & Communication Engineering, •Industrial
Engineering, •Mechanical Engineering, •Manufacturing Engineering, •Graphics and
Multimedia, •Software Engineering, •Biological Engineering, •Chemical
Engineering, •Agricultural engineering, •Remote sensing and information system.
The Journal accepts various types
of articles defined as follows:
Types
of articles include
Original research papers,
Reviews,
Mini-reviews,
Short research communications,
Letters to the editor.
IJCRAR is
designed for the prompt publication of peer-reviewed articles in all areas of
the subject. The journal articles will be accessed freely online.
All manuscripts are
pre-reviewed by the editor, and if appropriate, sent for blind peer review.
Contributions must be original, not previously or simultaneously published
elsewhere, and are critically reviewed before they are published. Manuscripts
submitted to the IJCRAR are peer reviewing, initially
reviewed according to the flow diagram reviewing and then reach to the
technical reviewer. A minimum of three reviews related to subject is required
for each Journal manuscript. IJCRAR publishes original articles, short
communications to editor and reviews monthly.
IJCRAR is
currently accepting manuscripts; you can support this journal (IJCRAR) by
sending your manuscripts to us at editorijcret@gmail.com
A manuscript number will be
emailed to the corresponding author within 48 hours.
Quick Navigation
Call for Papers
Processing Charges
Join with us
Advertise with Us
Editorial Board
Contact Us
Archives
2018-Issues
Volume 6-1 January
Volume 6-2 February
2017-Issues
Volume 5-12 December
Volume 5-11 November
Volume 5-10 October
Volume 5-9 September
Volume 5-8 August
Volume 5-7 July
Volume 5-6 June
Volume 5-5 May
Volume 5-4 April
Volume 5-3 March
Volume 5-2 February
Volume 5-1 January
View All Archives
Home
Advertise(IJCRAR)
Terms of Use
Copyright Form
Contacts
© Copyright 2013-2016 all rights reserved by IJCRAR. Powered by 7Cube Technologies