Wikipedia:Main Page alternative (tomorrow+today) - Wikipedia
Wikipedia:Main Page alternative (tomorrow+today)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
More main page alternatives
Welcome to Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.
5,722,596 articles in English
Arts
Biography
Geography
History
Mathematics
Science
Society
Technology
All portals
Overview · Searching · Editing · Questions · Help
Categories · Featured content · A–Z index
Today's featured article
US Highway 25 (US 25) was a highway in the state of Michigan that ran northeasterly from the Ohio state line near Toledo through Monroe and Detroit to Port Huron. Continuing near the foot of the Blue Water Bridge, it proceeded north and northwesterly along the Lake Huron shoreline to the tip of The Thumb in Port Austin. Created with the initial US Highway System in 1926, US 25 followed some roadways dating from the 19th and early 20th centuries, and replaced several state highway designations. The highway was extended to Port Austin in 1933. Starting in the early 1960s, segments of Interstate 75 and Interstate 94 were built, and US 25 was shifted to follow them concurrently south of Detroit to Port Huron. On September 26, 1973, the entire designation was removed from the state. The final routing of the highway is still maintained by the state under eight different designations, some unsigned. (Full article...)
Part of the U.S. Highways in Michigan series, one of Wikipedia's featured topics.
Recently featured:
Æthelbald of Mercia
Operation Ke
Red-billed tropicbird
Archive
By email
More featured articles
Did you know...
Portrait of Thomas Hawker by Charles Foot Tayler
... that a successful Peninsular War charge led by Thomas Hawker (pictured) was said to prove that the use of carbines by cavalrymen was "nothing short of insanity"?
... that Campanino apples are used to make a sweet-and-hot condiment, mostarda di Mantova, that has been eaten since the Middle Ages?
... that Xavier basketball player Zach Hankins received no Division I scholarship offers out of high school?
... that a loop from the anthem O clap your hands, a setting of verses from Psalm 47 by Ralph Vaughan Williams for choir, brass, organ and percussion, was used by the Beatles for "Revolution 9"?
... that Manshuk Mametova was the first Kazakh woman to become a Hero of the Soviet Union, after she refused to follow the rest of her unit in retreating from battle in Nevel?
... that Grappenhall Heys Walled Garden has ponds which were originally marl pits?
... that Vijay Shastri has written more than 200 short stories in Gujarati?
... that the Sega Technical Institute released four Sonic the Hedgehog games in three years?
Archive
Start a new article
Nominate an article
Tomorrow's featured article
From Russia, with Love is the fifth novel by the English author Ian Fleming to feature his fictional British Secret Service agent James Bond. Fleming wrote the story in early 1956 at his Goldeneye estate in Jamaica; at the time he thought it might be his final Bond book.
The story centres on a plot by SMERSH, the Soviet counter-intelligence agency, to assassinate Bond in such a way as to discredit both him and his organisation. As bait, the Russians use a beautiful cipher clerk and the Spektor, a Soviet decoding machine. Much of the action takes place in Istanbul and on the Orient Express (pictured). The book was inspired by Fleming's visit to Turkey on behalf of The Sunday Times to report on an Interpol conference; he returned to Britain by the Orient Express. From Russia, with Love deals with the East–West tensions of the Cold War, and the decline of British power and influence after the Second World War.
In 1963 it was adapted into the second film in the Bond series, starring Sean Connery. (Full article...)
Recently featured:
U.S. Route 25 in Michigan
Æthelbald of Mercia
Operation Ke
Archive
By email
More featured articles
In the news
Eliud Kipchoge
An attack at a military parade in Ahvaz, Iran, leaves at least 30 people dead, including the attackers.
A Tanzanian ferry capsizes on Lake Victoria, killing at least 227 people.
A landslide, triggered by several days of heavy rainfall, kills at least 53 people in Naga, Philippines.
Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge (pictured) runs the Berlin Marathon in world record time.
NASA's ICESat-2 satellite is launched, the last mission to use the Delta II rocket.
Recent deaths:
Jane Fortune
Mike Labinjo
Edna Molewa
Chas Hodges
Other recent events
Nominate an article
On this day...
September 26: National Flag Day in Ecuador (1860)
Ruins of the Parthenon
1493 – Pope Alexander VI issued the papal bull Dudum siquidem, the last of the Bulls of Donation, marking the beginning of the Spanish colonization of the Americas.
1687 – The Parthenon in Athens was partially destroyed (ruins pictured) during an armed conflict between the Venetians under Francesco Morosini and Ottoman forces.
1907 – The British Colony of New Zealand officially became a dominion to reflect its political independence since the 1850s.
1983 – The racing yacht Australia II, captained by John Bertrand, won the America's Cup, ending the New York Yacht Club's 132-year defense of the trophy.
2008 – Swiss pilot and inventor Yves Rossy flew a wingpack powered by jet engines across the English Channel.
Francis Daniel Pastorius (b. 1651) · Théodore Géricault (b. 1791) · Leslie Morshead (d. 1959)
More anniversaries:
September 25
September 26
September 27
Archive
By email
List of historical anniversaries
Tomorrow...
September 27: Meskel in Eritrea and Ethiopia
Aung San Suu Kyi
1825 – Locomotion No. 1 hauled the train on the opening day of the Stockton and Darlington Railway, the first public railway to use steam locomotives.
1854 – The paddle steamer SS Arctic sank after a collision with SS Vesta, a much smaller vessel, 50 miles (80 km) off the coast of Newfoundland, killing approximately 320 people.
1930 – With his victory in the United States Amateur Championship, Bobby Jones became the only person to complete a Grand Slam in golf.
1964 – The British Aircraft Corporation TSR-2, an advanced Cold War strike and reconnaissance aircraft that was later cancelled, made its first flight.
1988 – Led by pro-democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi (pictured), the political party National League for Democracy was founded in Burma.
Felice della Rovere (d. 1536) · Ivan Goncharov (d. 1891) · Gwyneth Paltrow (b. 1972)
More anniversaries:
September 26
September 27
September 28
Archive
By email
List of historical anniversaries
Today's featured picture
Eristalinus taeniops, also known as the band-eyed drone fly, is a species of hoverfly found in parts of Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Photograph: Joaquim Alves Gaspar
Recently featured:
Cornelis Kruseman
Steven Chu
Lady Seated at a Virginal
Archive
More featured pictures
Tomorrow's featured picture
Divorce is the process of terminating a marriage. Divorce laws vary considerably around the world, but in most countries divorce requires the sanction of a court or other authority in a legal process, which involves issues such as distribution of property and child custody. Common reasons for divorce include adultery, domestic violence, midlife crises, addiction, and workaholism.
This image is an cartoon by Samuel D. Ehrhart, titled An International High Noon Divorce. It parodies the circus-like proceedings during the divorce of American socialite Anna Gould from her husband Boni de Castellane, a French nobleman.
Cartoon: Samuel D. Ehrhart. Restoration: Adam Cuerden
Recently featured:
Eristalinus taeniops
Cornelis Kruseman
Steven Chu
Archive
More featured pictures
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:
Commons
Free media repository
MediaWiki
Wiki software development
Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination
Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals
Wikidata
Free knowledge base
Wikinews
Free-content news
Wikiquote
Collection of quotations
Wikisource
Free-content library
Wikispecies
Directory of species
Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities
Wikivoyage
Free travel guide
Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus
Wikipedia languages
This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,722,596 articles.
Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
More than 1,000,000 articles:
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
日本語
Polski
Português
Русский
Svenska
Tiếng Việt
中文
More than 250,000 articles:
العربية
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Català
Čeština
Esperanto
Euskara
فارسی
한국어
Magyar
Norsk
Română
Srpski
Srpskohrvatski
Suomi
Türkçe
Українська
More than 50,000 articles:
Bosanski
Български
Dansk
Eesti
Ελληνικά
English (simple form)
Galego
עברית
Hrvatski
Latviešu
Lietuvių
മലയാളം
Norsk nynorsk
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
ไทย
Complete list of Wikipedias
All
New articles: 5 10 15
20
25
30
|
Orphans:
5
|
Categories:
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Main_Page_alternative_(tomorrow%2Btoday)&oldid=573751462"
Categories: Main Page alternatives
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Project pageTalk
Variants
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store
Interaction
HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page
Tools
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
Languages
Add links
This page was last edited on 20 September 2013, at 08:16 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view