ID Card Photo Submission, ID Office, U.Va.
This Site
Text Version | Print Version(Print Version Requires JavaScript)
Overview
Eligibility
Visiting, Wage, Part-Time IDs
Lost/Replacement ID
ID Card Policy
Contact/Location
Home
Photo Submission - Submit 10 Days Prior to Session
New Students Only
Your University of Virginia ID Card and Photo
Submission
The
University ID Card is your passport to the University of Virginia.  It provides you
access to facilities
across the Grounds and allows you to obtain services from Dining locations, the
University Bookstores, Cavalier Computers, Elson Student Health Center, Laundry
locations and more.  Read more about the
many features of the University ID card.
Obtaining a University ID Card
In order to
receive your University ID card, you will need to submit a photo online.
BE SURE TO READ ALL THE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY OR YOUR PHOTO WILL BE REJECTED!
The photo
should be PASSPORT-STYLE and meet the following requirements:
IMPORTANT:
•
Background MUST be SOLID
white or light color.
• Be sure not too dark.
• Crop to shoulders.
• Face and shoulders must face forward.
•
NO sunglasses, hats or anyone else in photo.
•
Photo must be a color JPEG, minimum of 2 x 3
inches.
• File should not exceed
400 KB.
• Submit
ONLY one photo at a time.
Your photo will appear EXACTLY as submitted if accepted.
The ID Office is NOT able to make any modifications.
When you have a photo that meets the above
requirements,
use your University of Virginia computing ID and password to log in to the secure site or select the Photo Submission button below.
PLEASE
NOTE: Once you have submitted a photo, and it was approved, do not resubmit a different photo.
Within three business working days you will
receive an email notification of your photo being approved or an email requesting you resubmit another photo.
You will
receive your University of Virginia ID card at your scheduled Summer Orientation session.   If you are unable to submit a photo online,
your photo can be taken and your ID card obtained during your scheduled Summer Orientation session.
Photo Submission Suggestions
Your original valid government issued photo ID is required to obtain your University of Virginia ID card.
Site Info
Maintained by:
Last Modified: 01-Jun-2018 11:26:05 EDT
© Copyright 2018 by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia
Address
ID Card Office
Phone: 434-924-4508
Fax: 434-982-5173