» History | Experience Somerset
About Us
Enjoy the peace and space
Somerset
relaxed rural log cabins
Luxury and tradition
Log cabin
In the English countryside
Stunning lakeside
Log Cabins
self catering accommodation
Stylish log cabins
enjoy
the English nature
Somerset country life
Unwind
And many activities
Beautiful surrounding
Peace & Space
in Somerset
0
Archives
History
The Somerset Coat of Arms and the Somerset Dragons
Posted March 26th, 2012
by Pete Savage
Not a few have been puzzled by the heraldric red dragon seen throughout Somerset, because that is the emblem of Wales. However, dragons have been associated with Somerset for centuries and were adopted as standards by Celts, Romans and Saxons. The West Saxons in the 8th century carried a golden dragon or wyvern standard against the Mercians in 752 and the Danes in 1016, and its last use in battle was probably the Battle of Hastings in 1066.
Somerset County Council was formed in 1889 but had no official coat of arms until 1906 when the council unofficially adopted a variation of the Wessex wyvern, using a four-legged dragon as their crest. This was formally ratified by the College of Heralds in 1911 as a red dragon on a gold background holding a mace as a symbol of office.
The County of Somerset Coat of Arms
The difference between a dragon and a wyvern is that a dragon has four legs while a wyvern only two legs.
The origin of the word wyvern or wyrm is interesting, being associated with the Latin vipera, Old Germanic wipera, Middle English wyvere, and Nordic orm, all referring to a poisonous serpent. The word dragon derives from the ancient Greek drakon and the Latin draco meaning a large serpent.
Dragons in legends usually symbolize some evil power, and perhaps many dragon myths have their origin in events where Christianity overcame paganism. For example, Carhampton is associated with the legend of the 6th century Celtic evangelist from Wales, Carantoc, and King Arthur who came to rescue the villagers from a flying dragon. Carantoc was looking for a place to set up his mission and so he cast his altar into the Severn Estuary saying wherever it came to rest, there he would build a church. On his way to Carhampton, King Arthur spotted the altar in the reeds near the sea, and picked it up. He noticed it was inscribed with the words “Carantoc’s Altar” but had no idea who Carantoc was. A few miles further on he met a man by the roadside who asked him if he had seen the altar of Carantoc, and revealed to the king that he was Carantoc. The king then asked him to call up the dragon from the marshes, which he did to everyone’s horror, except for Arthur and Carantoc. However, the dragon bowed its head in submission to Carantoc, who led it to the court of King Catho (Cado, king of the Dumnonians) at Dunster Castle, where the dragon was forced to promise that it would never hurt another soul again. It was so converted that from then on only used its fiery breath to aid villages light their bonfires in the rain, and Carantoc was granted land on which to build his chapel by the river at Carhampton.
The Norton Fitzwarren dragon is just one of many legends about dragons in Somerset. Here are a few listed in Somersetfrom http://www.paranormaldatabase.com/reports/dragons.php?pageNum_paradata=3&totalRows_paradata=91
After a battle at the hill fort at Norton Fitzwarren, a dragon appeared from the pile of corpses and began to terrorise the area, devouring children and destroying crops. A young man, Fulk Fitzwartine, fought the beast and after a long and bloody struggle, pierced its heart and cut off its head. In All Saints Church, a 16th-century rood screen depicts the story.
In Wells the cathedral is built on the area where the villagers were prevented from accessing seven holy springs by a wyvern, which was driven away by Bishop Jocelyn.
At Wiviliscome around 1827, when the church was being rebuilt, the devil riding a green dragon is supposed to have thrown rocks at the reconstruction work until driven away by St. Andrew.
Shervage Wood between Crowcombe and Holford was supposed to be the haunt of at least one dragon. In one story it was killed by a forester from Holford, while in another story two men from Crowcombe engaged a double-headed winged lizard that terrorised the area, winning the battle by forcing the creature to eat burning pitch. Carvings on the benches in the Church of the Holy Ghost show some of the battle.
At Clevedon, somewhere between Dolebury Hill and Cadbury Camp a dragon was reported to guard a secret stash of treasure concealed in this area. A similar story is associated with Castle Neroche south of Taunton where treasure is reputed to hidden around the iron Age Hill Fort. On Castleman’s Hill at nearby Trull another dragon is supposed to have been killed.
In the area where Stapley Farm now stands near Churchstanton, a dragon was killed by a knight and the lashing of the dying dragon’s tail is said to have carved out a hollow in a field known as Wormstall.
To the north ofTaunton, atKingston St.Mary, a fire-breathing dragon terrorized the region until a local hero rolled a boulder up a hill opposite the dragon’s lair and rolled the boulder down into the dragon’s gaping maw, choking the foul beast.
In Low Ham church is a spear used by a local hero to kill a dragon that lived in the Athelney Marshes and fed on local livestock.
The village of Aller is reputed to be named after a local hero, John Aller, who slew a dragon. In one version of the story he was poisoned by the creature’s dying breaths, while in another he found a brood of hatchlings in a cave and blocked it up.
Legend and fact meet at Putsham Hill, Kilve, where a dragon known as Blue Ben is said to have built the nearby causeway in order to reach the sea to cool him down on days he was particularly fiery. He met his end when he slipped on the rocks, and suffocated in the mud below. His skull is actually a fossil ichthyosaur, a prehistoric sea-dragon along with many other now-extinct reptiles that could explain why stories about dragons are found throughout the world.
The motto Sumorsaete Ealle means “All the people of Somerset” and is taken from the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle of AD 878 when King Alfred the Great liberated Wessex from the Danes. In early January the Danish army invaded the land of the West-Saxons as far as Chippenham, with a surprise night-time attack, driving many of the Saxons away and dominating those who remained. Alfred fled westwards to rally his troops in the woods and moors. That winter the Saxons in North Devon repelled a further invasion of Danes from South Wales. In the Easter of 878 Alfred raised an army at Athelney, and in the seventh week after Easter rode to Brixton by the eastern side of Selwood. There he was joined by “all the people of Somersetshire”, and Wiltshire, and part of Hampshire, who rejoiced to see him. “Then within one night he went from this retreat to Hey; and within one night after he proceeded to Heddington [Edington]; and there fought with all the army, and put them to flight, riding after them as far as the fortress, where he remained a fortnight [besieged them for 14 days until they surrendered]. Then the army gave him hostages with many oaths, that they would go out of his kingdom. They told him also, that their king would receive baptism. And they acted accordingly; for in the course of three weeks after, King Guthrum, attended by some thirty of the worthiest men that were in the army, came to him at Aller, which is near Athelney, and there the king became his sponsor in baptism[christened him Æthelstan]; and his crisom-leasing [anointing with oil to symbolize receiving the Holy Spirit] was at Wedmor [Wedmoor]. He was there twelve nights with the king, who honoured him and his attendants with many presents.”
The words “Sumersaete ealle” – all the people of Somerset – was adopted as part of Somerset’s coat of arms in 1911.
Posted in Church History, General, History, Out of the Ordinary
No Comments
Somerset’s Romantic Poets
Posted February 29th, 2012
by Richard Savage
This part of Somerset is an ideal area for exploring the footsteps of some of the most famous romantic poets in English literature. In the last posting we mentioned something about William Wordsworth, and the countryside between Nether Stowey and Lynton was an area enjoyed by Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Not far from Lower Lakes we can explore localities where Samuel Taylor Coleridge, William Wordsworth, Robert Southey, Percy Bysshe Shelley and William Blake lived or roamed. Some of these places have still retained the atmosphere where they were inspired to write their poems
The Unitarian Chapel in Bridgwater attended by Coleridge
In Bridgwater itself is the original Unitarian Chapel which Coleridge attended, while in Mary Street, Taunton, is another Unitarian Chapel to which Coleridge would walk to and fro along the Quantocks to preach on Sundays. At Nether Stowey is the cottage at 35 Lime Streetwhere Coleridge lived from 1797-1799 with his wife Sara and son Hartley. This is now a National Trust Museum, displaying some of his personal memoirs, and it was here from 1797-1798  that Coleridge wrote the Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Frost at Midnight, This Lime Tree Bower my Prison, and Kubla Khan. Across the road from the cottage the “Ancient Mariner Inn” is named after one of Coleridge’s most famous works. In 1798 Coleridge was visited by William Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy, and they were so enthralled by his company that they immediately rented Alfoxden Hall near Holford, 3 miles west of Nether Stowey.
Coleridge's Cottage with the Inn of the Ancient Mariner opposite
Continue westwards on the A39 we pass the “Castle of Comfort”, dating from the 16th century or even earlier. During the 17th century it was a coaching inn, after which it became a coffee house and then a cider house when copper mining took place in the area. Miners collected their wages from the Counting House just to the east and came down to the Castle of Comfort for refreshment. On one occasion at least in 1798, William and Dorothy Wordsworth along with Coleridge refreshed themselves at the Castle of Comfort on a walk to Lynton, referred to by Dorothy in her journal.
Alfoxden Park House is reached by turning left in Kilve along Pardlestone Road. The building dates back to 1710, and the Wordsworths stayed here from July 1797 to June 1798. Here Wordsworth and Coleridge wrote their “Lyrical Ballads” and Dorothy began her journals in which she recorded walks, visits, conversations, and the world of nature through the winter of 1797. These beautiful word pictures were an important source of stimulation for her brother and also Coleridge. They were completed when the couple moved to the Lake District. and posthumously published as The Alfoxden Journal, 1798 and The Grasmere Journals, 1800-1803. During this period the main poems Worsworth produced were Ruth, The Thorn and The Whirlwind from Behind the Hill.
Coleridge’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner was planned and partly composed during a walking tour with the Wordsworths. Setting out from Alfoxden, they agreed that a poem should be published to cover the cost of their journey. They felt that the Monthly Magazine would pay £5 for a ballad based on the supernatural, a popular theme at the time. The main theme came from a dream about a ghost ship which  Coleridge’s friend, John Cruikshank, had. Wordsworth added the idea of the crime of shooting the albatross from reading Captain Shelvocke’s “A Voyage round the World by way of the Great South Sea” (1726), and another seafaring volume by William Bettagh, about the life of a sailor, Simon Hatley, who is said to have shot down “a black albatross” while on board a ship called the Speedwell.  Hatley sailed to the Pacific on two of the most dangerous voyages of the early 18th century and by an amazing coincidence was at one time on the same ship not only with Alexander Selkirk, the marooned sailor whose story inspired Daniel Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe, but also with William Dampier, an adventurer and writer whose work inspired Jonathan Swift to write Gulliver’s Travels.
The first night of the walk was spent at Watchet and the first few lines of the poem were reputedly written at the “Bell Inn”. Watchet harbour undoubtedly provided inspiration for the harbour from which the mariner set sail, then turning westwards along the Bristol Channel and then south into the wide Atlantic Ocean.
The ship was cheered, the harbour cleared,
Merrily did we drop
Below the kirk, below the hill,
Below the lighthouse top.
The sun came up upon the left,
Out of the sea came he!
And he shone bright, and on the right
Went down into the sea.
And then when he returned at the end of the voyage, with the sites reappearing in the reverse order:
Oh! dream of joy! is this indeed
The lighthouse top I see?
Is this the hill? is this the kirk?
Is this mine own country?
We drifted o’er the harbour-bar,
And I with sobs did pray -
O let me be awake, my God!
Or let me sleep alway.
In the harbour is a sculpture of the Ancient Mariner with the albatross hung around his neck.
Continuing along the A39 to Porlock, “The Ship Inn”, one of the oldest inns on Exmoor, is where some of the Ancient Mariner was composed, and which also has a fireside nook known as Southey’s Corner. In 1799, Robert and Edith Southey set off from Bristolfor a tour of the Exmoorcoast, arranging to return via Nether Stowey to stay with Samuel Coleridge. Edith became ill at Minehead, suffering from “extreme debility, pain in back and bowels, lack of appetite” and other complaints. Southey stayed with her for a fortnight, exploring the surrounding area. On 8th August, Edith being better but not fit for walking, Southey set off alone. He was driven to Porlock by Coleridge’s Nether Stowey friend and neighbour, John Cruickshank, in “a sort of sledge is used by the country people resting upon two poles like cart shafts.” Later he wrote to his brother: “Tom, you have talked of Somersetshire and its beauties but you have never seen the finest part. The neighbourhood of Stowey, Minehead and Porlock exceed anything I have seen in England before. . . .”
That evening he stayed here at the Ship Inn: “the bedroom reminded me of Spain, two long old dark tables with benches and an old chest composed its furniture: but there was an oval looking-glass, a decent pot de chambre and no fleas.” The next day was chilly and wet and he stayed by the inn fire in a nook now known as Southey’s Corner and composed his sonnet ‘To Porlock’ which includes the lines:
Here by the summer rain confined;
But often shall hereafter call to mind
How here, a patient prisoner `twas my lot
To wear the lonely, lingering close of day,
Making my sonnet by the ale house fire,
Whilst Idleness and Solitude inspire
Dull rhymes to pass the duller hours away.
A week later the ‘Morning Post’ sent him a guinea for his efforts.
Coleridge introduced the Wordsworths to the woodland path from Porlock Weir to Culbone where he had been the previous month and composed Kubla Khan. Culbone is said to have been inspiration for the hermit’s woodland home in The Ancient Mariner.
This Hermit good lives in that wood
Which slopes down to the sea.
How loudly his sweet voice he rears!
He loves to talk with marineers
That come from a far country.
He kneels at morn, and noon, and eve -
He hath a cushion plump:
It is the moss that wholly hides
The rotted old oak-stump.
The  walk to Culbone and back takes a good hour, but is worth the effort. Here we pass some of the remains of Ashley Combe, the mansion built in 1799 and improved in 1835 by Lord William King (later created the First Earl of Lovelace).  Ashley Combe was designed as a romantic country home for his wife Ada Byron (daughter of Lord Byron, yet another romantic poet) with exotic terraced gardens in the Italian style. It subsequently fell into disrepute and ruin, and was pulled down. There are still tunnels, passageways and archways to be seen beside the Culbone path. Ada Lovelace was also a close friend of Charles Babbage, inventor of the first computer or “analytical machine” andAdais credited with being the first computer software programmer. In 1979 the US Department of Defence named a secret software programme “ADA” in her honour.
The Wordsworths and Coleridge continued their coastal walk to Broomstreet Farm and Yenworthy, and by dusk reached Lynmouth. The next morning they walked up to the Valleyof Rocks, which they proposed to use for the setting of a prose tale The Wanderings of Cain, a story of murder and remorse. It was decided that Wordsworth should write the first canto of the story and Coleridge the second which he finished ‘at full finger-speed‘ only to find Wordsworth with a nearly blank sheet of paper and a look of ‘humorous despondency’ on his face. The story was never finished and later attempts at writing things together also failed, due to clashes of personality.
Coleridge and the Wordsworths were greatly enamoured with the Lynton area and even thought of moving there. Coleridge wrote to a friend: “We will go on a roam to Linton and Linmouth, which if thou camest in May will be in all their pride of woods and waterfalls, not to speak of the august cliffs, and the green ocean, and the Vast Valley of Stones all of which live disdainful of the seasons or accept new honours only from the winter’s snow.”
The impression made by the scenery around Lynton and the Valley of Rocks is reflected in his poem Reflections on Leaving a Place of Retirement, although not specifically named.
But the time, when first
From that low Dell, steep up the stony Mount
I climb’d with perilous toil and reach’d the top,
Oh ! what a goodly scene ! Here the bleak mount,
The bare bleak mountain speckled thin with sheep ;
Grey clouds, that shadowing spot the sunny fields ;
And river, now with bushy rocks o’er-brow’d,
Now winding bright and full, with naked banks ;
And seats, and lawns, the Abbey and the wood,
And cots, and hamlets, and faint city-spire ;
The Channel there, the Islands and white sails,
Dim coasts, and cloud-like hills, and shoreless Ocean–
It seem’d like Omnipresence ! God, methought,
Had build him there a Temple : the whole World
Seem’d imag’d in its vast circumference :
No wish profan’d my overwhelméd heart.
Blest hour ! It was a luxury,–to be !
It is not clear whether they returned to the Valley of  Rocks as Wordsworth had intended and it is certain only that they passed through Dulverton. They returned after a week, during which time they dropped the idea of publishing the poem in a magazine and proposed to publish jointly a book of their poems, which came out a year later as Lyrical Ballads, the work which is said to have inspired the English Romantic movement. Besides The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, it included one of Wordsworth’s most famous poems, Tintern Abbey. The second edition, published in 1800, had a preface in which Wordsworth discusses what he sees as the elements of a new type of romantic poetry, one based on the “real language of men“. Here, he also gives his famous definition of poetry as “the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings from emotions recollected in tranquility.”
In Lynmouth is  ”Shelley’s Hotel”, where Percy Bysshe Shelley honeymooned during the Summer of 1812, having eloped with the 16-year-old daughter of a former London inn keeper, named Harriet Westbrook. Two years later Shelley abandoned her for the love of his life Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, the authoress whose most well-known novel “Frankenstein; or The Modern Prometheus” may have been inspired by attending the lectures given by Andrew Crosse in 1814 in which he explained his attempts to create living organisms by means of atmospheric electricity in his laboratory at Fyne Court, Broomfield.
Not far from Lower Lakes in the opposite direction, on the Mendips around Glastonburyand Charterhouse, we can trace some of the things which stimulated William Blake to write “Jerusalem”. He also was acquainted with Mary Shelley and something of an eccentric non-conformist visionary mystic, although rejected as a madman by 18th century society.  When Blake died in 1827, William Wordsworth said, “There was no doubt that this poor man was mad, but there is something in the madness of this man which interests me more than the sanity of Lord Byron and Walter Scott.”
Blake hated the effects of the Industrial Revolution inEnglandand looked forward to the establishment of a New Jerusalem “in England’s green and pleasant land.” He was inspired by the legend that Jesus as a boy accompanied his uncle Joseph of Arimathea to our island and visited Glastonbury. The term “dark Satanic Mills”, which entered the English language from this poem, is interpreted as referring to the early Industrial Revolution and its destruction of nature and human relationships. Around Charterhouse we can see the remains of the lead furnaces where the ore was refined and many small boys died in Victorian times from the effects of having to clean out the furnaces.
Further afield beside the A39 between Ashcott and Street is the “Pipers Inn.”  In 1841, two years before he succeeded Southey as Poet Laureate, Wordsworth returned to Somerset on a nostalgic trip to visit his youthful haunts. He and his wife Mary stayed at a friend’s house in Bath, and attended the wedding of their daughter, Dora, to Mr. Edward Quillinan at St James’s Church. One day the wedding party drove out to Ashcott to have breakfast at Pipers Inn and afterwards they all went to Alfoxden to reminisce over their past. The Pipers Inn certainly dates from 1723 and  stands on the site where there has been an inn for over 400 years, and one called “The Castle” was built here, possibly in the late 17th century. About 200 years ago an imposing house was added to the side of the existing building to form the present day frontage with contrasting architectural styles.
It is not only romantic poets who get carried away by their emotions. I will stop here!
Posted in Activities, Bridgwater, General, History, Literature, Places to Visit
No Comments
Another Notable Bridgwater Naval Man
Posted February 15th, 2012
by Richard Savage
This afternoon I went in search of another notable Bridgwater naval man, one who fought in the American Civil War from 1861 to1865 for the abolition of slavery, William Jolley Nicholls (1843-1921).  He emigrated to America in 1853 when he was 11 years old and was one of the early pioneers.
He served with the Union forces in the American Civil War, fighting for the abolition of negro slavery.  He served in the Union navy on board the USS North Carolina and the Potomac from 1861-1865, including the famous battle of Mobile Bay in August 1864 when William was a seaman on the Stockdale under Admiral David Glasgow Farragut. The ships had to run the gauntlet between two shore batteries on Fort Gaines and Fort Morgan at the entrance to the bay, and the USS Tecumseh hit a mine and sank immediately. On the order from Farragut “Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead” (torpedoes was the name given to mines then) the fleet broke through into the bay, and attacked the forts for 3 weeks until they surrendered.
He subsequently joined the army of the Republic, and on retirement became a stonemason.
Around 1911 he returned to the “Old Country” and lived in Devonshire, before moving to Bridgwater for the last two years of his life.  His home was 151 St. John Street and he was buried in August 1921 in the Bristol Road cemetery.  His daughter was the headmistress of the village school in Chedzoy.
William Nicholls' grave in Bristol Road cemetery
If you want to see his grave, it is to the left hand side of the tarmacked road leading northwards from the car park, four plots along on the north side of the grass track between Sections 3 and 4.  Sadly it is quite broken down.  But the inscription can be clearly read: “Veteran of the American Civil War for the Abolition of Slavery 1861-1865.”
William Jolley Nicholls' grave
Tribute to a Civil War Veteran
Another connection between Bridgwater and the naval battles of the American Civil War can be seen in the Blake Museum, the name plate of the CSS Alabama, which was sunk off  Cherbourg.  You can read about this in http://www.experiencesomerset.co.uk/the-bridgwater-connection-with-the-css-alabama
Posted in Bridgwater, General, History, Naval History
No Comments
More living “bricks” of Bridgwater – Naval Heroes
Posted February 4th, 2012
by Richard Savage
Robert Blake was not the only naval hero from Bridgwater.
Two other “bricks” served under Nelson. Sir Davidge Gould (1758-1847) was born in Bridgwater, although his father came from Sharpham Park near Glastonbury. He joined the navy at the age of 13 and served as a midshipman in the Mediterranean until being promoted to Lieutenant in 1779. In 1782 he took part in the last sea battle of the American War of Independence under the command of Sir George Rodney against a French fleet. In 1795, as Captain of the Bedford, he took part in various skirmishes at the Battle of Genoa and the Battle of Hyeres under Vice Admiral Hotham, and then in 1798 he captained the Audacious as part of the fleet under Rear Admiral Horatio Nelson pursuing the French fleet to Aboukir Bay near Alexandria, and then taking part in naval history’s most overwhelming victory, against superior gun power – the Battle of the Nile, for which Davidge Gould received a medal for valour. He was awarded the KCB in 1815, became Full Admiral in 1825, was awarded the GCB in 1833, and retired from the navy in 1840 at the age of 82.
Better known is the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, when another son of Bridgwater, George Lewis Browne (1784-1856) played a significant role as Lieutenant alongside Admiral Lord Nelson on the upper deck of HMS Victory. He attended the local grammar school in Bridgwater from the age of 7, and is reported to have climbed the masts of ships along the quays to escape being bullied. In 1797, he joined the navy and became a midshipman on board the Royal George and rose quickly to Lieutenant at the age of 20. His exemplary conduct, his assiduous studying of his profession in his spare time, his instruction of juniors, and his total abstinence from alcohol won the admiration of first Sir Thomas Hardy and then Admiral Lord Nelson. He received his Lieutenant’s commission on the quarter deck of the Victory on 1st August 1804, the anniversary of the Battle of theNile.
His role on board the Victory was as assistant signal officer, and therefore along in raising the final signals “England confides that every man will do his duty” followed by “Close Action.” He remained on the upper deck when Nelson was carried mortally wounded below. After the Victory was decommissioned he served as Flag-Lieutenant on the Ocean under Admiral Lord Collingwood, who promoted him to Commander, just 2 days before Collingwood died, so Browne had the responsibility of bringing his admiral’s body home to England.  He then retired and bought a small farm on Knowle Hill. Farming was not stimulating enough for him, so he went to London to study law. In 1836 he returned to Bridgwater where he became a magistrate and also branch manager for the West of England Bank. He was also an active member of the Unitarian Chapel. His remains and those of his wife, Ann, are now together in a family vault in the cemetery on the Wembdon Road.
Another naval hero was Commander Trevor Crick, OBE, DSC (1901-1997), who after retiring from the Royal Navy settled in Spaxton, and was a founder member and Commanding officer of the local Sea Cadet unit. His education included 5 terms on the Training Ship Conway, a Merchant Navy training establishment, and then 3 terms at Dartmouth. In 1917-18 he served on board the battleship HMS Colossus with the 4th Battle Squadron on the Grand Fleet, and then as Midshipman on the battlecruiser HMS Lion. The Admiralty then sent him to Cambridge University, where he captained the First XV at rugby, playing many times at Twickenham, and but for an injury could have won an England cap. He also represented the navy as a light heavyweight boxer and climbed Ben Nevis in record time.
In 1930 he trained at HMS Vernon, the torpedo and mining school, and won an award from the Admiralty for developing a new device for sweeping mines and countering the detection systems of magnetic mines, just before World War II broke out. He was strafed, bombed and wounded in the foot at the evacuation from Dunkirk while waiting to evacuate troops in a Dutch barge, and had to be evacuated himself. In 1941, while commanding the corvette Freesia, he led 8 minesweepers in advance of the amphibious invasion of Madagascar in May 1942 and was awarded the DSC  “for bravery and enterprise while serving.”
While on convoy escort duty off the coast of Spain, he was able to add a bar to his DSC through depth charging the Italian submarine Leonardo da Vinci which two months earlier had torpedoed the troopship Empress of Canada, on which his brother Group Captain Kenneth Crick was senior officer.
Those of us who have never personally been in actual combat conditions may throw up out hands in horror and indignation when we hear of our own soldiers and sailors being killed by “friendly fire”, especially when it is British troops being attacked by Americans, but the fact is that in the heat of battle mistakes can happen in one’s zeal to engage the enemy and timing is critical when it is “them or us” and orders must be obeyed. Trevor Crick won his OBE for the courage he showed when in August 1944, after being mentioned twice in despatches for his part in the D-day landings, as Senior Officer of the First Minesweeping Flotilla off the Normandy coast on board the Jason, his flotilla of minesweepers was attacked by 16 RAF Typhoons with rockets, mistaking them for enemy vessels. Two sweepers were sunk, the Britomart and Hussar, while the Salamandar had her stern blown away; 117 men lost their lives and 153 were wounded. With the Salamandar drifting within range of shore batteries, Trevor Crick took the Jason to her rescue, laying a two-mile smoke screen, and towed her to safety.
Once again, I am indebted to Roger Evans for researching out most of these details which are grippingly written in “Forgotten Heroes of Bridgwater” (ISBN 0 9525674 1 5).
Posted in Bridgwater, History, Naval History
No Comments
The living “bricks” of Bridgwater – Outstanding Soldiers
Posted February 3rd, 2012
by Richard Savage
Reminiscing about the Bridgwater brick works must have been the reason why I woke up with the expression “You’re a brick!” in my mind, and wondering where that came from.
It refers, of course, to a good, solid, substantial, dependable person. The expression is said to have originated with King Lycurgus of Sparta (ca. 800-730 BC), who was reputed to be responsible for establishing the Spartan virtues of equality (among citizens), military fitness, and austerity. When questioned about the absence of defensive walls around his city. “There are the walls of Sparta”, he replied, pointing at his soldiers, “and every man is a brick.’” [From the "Encyclopedia of Word and Phrase Origins" by Robert Hendrickson (Facts on File, New York, 1997)].
It is strange how words come to mean something different from what they originally meant. Think of today’s use of the word “wicked”. When I was a boy, wicked meant only one thing, and a person who was wicked was bad and evil. Today, it is a compliment when your children say “You’re wicked, Dad!”
Oddly, the word brick seems to have come from the Old French briche which is akin to the Germanic/Middle Dutch word bricke, meaning a tile, or broken piece, with the same root as break. Even today in computer language something that is “bricked” is non-functional and beyond repair.
So, we have to admit there was some sense in Lewis Carroll’s “Alice through the Looking Glass” when the pompous Humpty Dumpty said to Alice:
‘There’s glory for you!’
‘I don’t know what you mean by “glory”,’ Alice said.
Humpty Dumpty smiled contemptuously. ‘Of course you don’t — till I tell you. I meant “there’s a nice knock-down argument for you!”‘
‘But “glory” doesn’t mean “a nice knock-down argument”,’ Alice objected.
‘When I use a word,’ Humpty Dumpty said, in rather a scornful tone, ‘it means just what I choose it to mean — neither more nor less.’
‘The question is,’ said Alice, ‘whether you can make words mean so many different things.’
Obviously, people can, and do. And there is also some sense in the strange conversation that Alice had at the Mad Hatter’s tea party in “Alice in Wonderland”, when the Mad Hatter asked:
`Why is a raven like a writing-desk?’
`Come, we shall have some fun now!’ thought Alice. `I’m glad they’ve begun asking riddles.–I believe I can guess that,’ she added aloud.
`Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?’ said the March Hare.
`Exactly so,’ said Alice.
`Then you should say what you mean,’ the March Hare went on.
`I do,’ Alice hastily replied; `at least–at least I mean what I say–that’s the same thing, you know.’
`Not the same thing a bit!’ said the Hatter.
I think that very often we need to say what we mean, as well as meaning what we say, in order to communicate with one another in a way that each person understands what the other is saying.
But let’s get back to the point of this article. What has all this to do with Bridgwater? Now I am thinking of those men and women who we could say have been living “bricks” of Bridgwater, people we can honour and be proud of.
We have written about Robert Blake, and there is no doubt that he was a brick.
But then there are the “Forgotten Heroes of Bridgwater” whom Roger Evans has written about in his book of the same name (ISBN 0 9525674 1 5) and makes fascinating reading. There you can read about military heroes like
Denis Heron (1829-1895), Troop Sergeant-Major and  Sergeant-Instructor in the West Somerset Yeomanry Cavalry, but who had been a member of the Queen’s Own Hussars, the 4th Light Dragoons and one of the survivors of the gallant six hundred who had ridden in the fateful Charge of the Light Brigade in 1854. The whole saga is told grippingly by Roger Evans in his book.  Irish by birth,  Denis Heron spent most of his life in Bridgwater, living in Salmon Parade, and after his death from bronchitis, often fatal in those days before antibiotics,  he was buried with full military honours in the top right corner of the cemetery in Bristol Road. Another memorial to those days is the cannon in the middle of the roundabout at the junction of the Bristol and Bath Roads. It was originally a Russian cannon captured in the Crimean War, presented to the town in 1857, and placed in Salmon Parade about 40 yards from the Town Bridge, right outside of  Denis’s front door.  In 1886 it was moved to the present locality, but sadly removed for scrap metal during the war. The present cannon is a replica.
Replica of cannon from the Crimea
Grave of Denis Heron in Bristol Road Cemetery
Denis Heron was loved and esteemed throughout the whole regiment for his upright and kind manner, and the courtesy he showed to every person who met him during the 25 years of his faithful and devoted service.
An equally gripping story recounted by Roger Evans is that of  Edwin “Harry” Murrant -also spelt Morant (1864-1901) whose parents were master and matron of the Bridgwater workhouse at Northgate. His father died during the pregnancy, and his mother was subsequently described as disrespectful, violent and defiant. She lost her job and moved to 2 Bradford Villas in Wembdon. His elder sister Annie became a professor of music and lived in Hamp Crescent. Around 1884 Harry emigrated to Australia, and changed his name to Harry Harbord Morant. There he worked with droving and breaking horses, earning a reputation throughout much of south and east Australia for his audacity and adventurous life-style, and also for his poetry which he published under the pen name “The Breaker.” In 1900 he enlisted with the South Australian Mounted Rifles and fought in the Boer War, becoming a Lieutenant in the Bushveldt Carbineers. By all accounts something of a “dirty” war had developed between the British and the Boers, with atrocities on both sides. Harry Morant was court-marshalled and executed by firing squad for “war crimes” in what has become one of the most controversial wartime trials. The evidence for both sides, as well as the disappearance of vital legal documents from the court hearings, is presented extensively in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breaker_Morant
On one side he is regarded as a daring and loyal soldier who carried out orders from the British High Command, and was made a scapegoat to cover up vagueness of those orders to “take no prisoners” and also to appease the German Kaiser for the murder of a German missionary. His trial and sentence is seen as a gross travesty of justice for which the British High Command should be held responsible. From the official army reports he is seen as a ruthless, vengeful killer of helpless prisoners-of-war. From Morant’s own viewpoint, he did not deny shooting the Boers, but saw it as carrying out orders and justified reprisals for the killing and mutilation of colleagues.
Was Morant wicked or wicked? True either way,  according to the meaning you give to “wicked”. As with the story of Sarah Biffin under “Outstanding Bridgwater Women”, all will be revealed on the Great Judgment Day, when the secrets of men’s hearts will be revealed, as well as their works, and everyone will receive a just recompense for how they lived and died.
Two other “bricks” who survived the ordeal of being Japanese prisoners-of-war were Ron Authers (1917-1990) and Ernie Hobbs, both of whom worked for British Cellophane after leaving the army. Again, you must read the whole story in Roger Evans’ book. Suffice to say that Ron survived the Fall of Singapore, the Railway of Death and the Bridge over the River Kwai, the perils of Japanese cruelty and disease, being torpedoed while being transferred to Japan to work in the Mitsubishi factory, and then witnessing the atomic bombing of Hishoshima and Nagasaki.
Then there are naval heroes, commandos and marines from Bridgwater whose names and exploits should be remembered.
Posted in Bridgwater, General, History
No Comments
The beginning and end of the Bridgwater Brick and Tile Industry
Posted February 1st, 2012
by Richard Savage
Sunrise over Lower Lakes is a lovely scene. Every morning is different, as you can see from these photos, but each marks the beginning of a new day.
Sunrise over Lodge Lake
Sunrise over Lower Lakes on 1st Feb 2012
This morning, after my visit to the Brick and Tile Museum yesterday, I mused about the beginning and the end of that industrial era in Bridgwater. Probably local people had fired their own bricks from clay for centuries, but records show that from 1683 bricks and tiles were ordered to build and repair public property such as the almshouses, and in 1699 two thousand tiles were ordered for building work at Hestercombe, and probably came from Hamp. In the 18th century Bridgwater supplied thousands of bricks to South Wales. In 1769, Samuel Glover’s brickyard at Hamp supplied bricks at 16 shillings per 1000 and pantiles at 40 shillings. He had his own ships, which not only exported the bricks but also imported anthracite coal dust fromWales to fire the kilns.
The industry flourished during the 19th century. Typical Bridgwater bricks became standardized at 8½ inches by 4 inches by 2 and 5/8 inches thick with 20 holes in 3 rows of 7-6-7 holes, which made them lighter and easier to handle, and also provided a key for the mortar.  During the 20th century there were 18 works and factories alongside the River Parrett from Dunwear to Chilton Trinity
There is an account of the end of the end of the Brick and Tile industry in the excellent “History of Bridgwater” compiled by J.F. Lawrence, and completed by his son Dr. Chris Lawrence, which makes very interesting reading. Much of what I write now is taken from this book.
Chilton Trinity brickworks in the 19th century (by kind permission of the Somerset Brick and Tile Museum)
Chilton Brickworks in 2011
In the 1920s the  London Brick Company who owned enormous sources of clay in Bedfordshire and had mass production methods giving a uniformity of product that Bridgwater did not have, started to get the monopoly over brick production. Bath Brick manufacture was also declining, being superseded by more gentle abrasive powders. Bridgwater could also not meet the challenge of cheap machine-made tiles imported from France for use in council housing schemes in 1929, although hand-made pantiles were still in demand, being more attractive and no more expensive. However, after the Second World War the introduction of concrete tiles and cheaper concrete blocks led to the eventual demise of the Bridgwater Brick and Tile Industry, plus the fact that much of the best clay was exhausted. One by one the last operating companies closed down, until the last one, Barham Bros., stopped production in 1964, a sad day for the local economy.
Mechanical excavation of the clay from the pits
The remnants of the wharf at East Quay, where Barham Bros. used to be
As the sun sets over Lower Lakes, and the flooded clay pits conceal what was once a flourishing source of income for the town, we must look forward to a new day and see what the hard-working people of Bridgwater can do next for the welfare and prosperity of our ancient town and community. May what we can learn from the past help to inspire the young people who are our future.It would be very interesting to receive further information from Bridgwater residents who were once involved with the industry, to share their memories of what it was like to work in the Brick and Tile Industry.
Sunset over Lower Lakes
Sunset in the west - with the hope of a new sunrise
Posted in Bridgwater, General, History, Industrial archaeology
No Comments
The Bridgwater Bath Brick
Posted February 1st, 2012
by Richard Savage
Apart from the manufacture of bricks and tiles, the production of scouring bricks was an important part of the industry.  During the 19th century the Bath Brick was a popular cleaner throughout Britain, Europe andAmerica for polishing, scouring and cleaning metalwork and cutlery. They were once issued regularly to soldiers in the British army, and hence travelled all over the world, wherever the sun never set over the British Empire.
These blocks were made from the fine alumina and silica particles that were washed down the River Parrett and deposited in specially constructed slime batches built along the river one mile north and one mile south of the Town Bridge, where the slime was known to be of the right consistency, and at Dunball. These consisted of a bed of brick rubble projecting from the river bank with low sides to encourage settlement. When the deposit that had “pitched” in the “batches” was 4 feet thick it would be dug out and deposited on the river bank to allow rain water to wash the salt out. Already by 1896 some 25 batches existed to trap the slime, and bricks were being manufactured under the names of Axford and Sealey. There were ten manufacturers in the 1920s with John Board & Co Ltd being the major producer.
The slime mixture would be taken to a simple horse-worked mixer, shaped in a “pugging mill” and extruded or “obstricked” into 6 inch balls, which would then be pressed into bricks in a mould using a “striker” and turned out onto boards to dry. High temperature firing in kilns would follow a few days later, but only at 500-600 degrees Celsius, the process taking 4-6 days, hence the softer colour compared with normal Bridgwater bricks which would be fired at 930 degrees Celsius for about a week. Finally they would be trimmed with an emery wheel and wrapped in strong paper.
Broken or rejected bricks were ground into a bulk powder.
It was called the “Bath Brick” because of its similarity in colour to Bath Stone. A patent granted in 1827 referred to “a certain composition or substance….. when perfected would resemble in colour the stone called or known by the name of Bath Stone.”
E.H. Burrington wrote a poem “Apostrophe to the Parrett” which included the lines:
“But thou lowest ever beautifully thick,
Leaving the filthy slime to make Bath brick!”
Bath Bricks were advertised as “the most effective and economical polishing material. It is superior to metal polish and does not contain acid or alcohol injurious to metals.” Sadly, after 1918, alternative cleaning materials that were cheaper gradually put an end to the manufacture of Bath Bricks. Now, when you use Vim or Ajax, remember their predecessor – the Bath Brick!
Assortment of Bath Bricks manufactured in Bridgwater (by kind permission of the Somerset Brick and Tile Museum)
Posted in Bridgwater, History, Industrial archaeology, Literature, Places to Visit
No Comments
Bridgwater Brick and Tile Industry
Posted February 1st, 2012
by Richard Savage
Situated at East Quay, on the east bank of the River Parrett between Chandos Bridge and the more northerly bridge where Western Way crosses the river, is the museum dedicated to the Somerset Brick and Tile Industry.  It is housed in the buildings adjoining the kiln that once belonged to the brick yard of Barham Brothers, which closed down in 1964.
Somerset Brick and Tile Museum on East Quay
Inside are displayed the tools, methods and processes involved in making a variety of bricks, tiles, and terracotta plaques, with old photographs of the industry.
The brick industry was already under way in the late 17th century. In the 1720s the schemes of the Duke of  Chandos boosted the industry, with the construction of the glass cone and the redevelopment of the castle area with the elegant terraces of  Chandos Street and Castle Street intended to attract prosperous tradesmen.  Unfortunately the Duke’s schemes did not realize and prosper as he hoped, although the housing development, in line with Bath, was in vogue with the professions and society, as well as merchants.
The brick industry escalated in the 18th and 19th centuries, employing about 1300 men in the 1840s. By 1850 there were many brickworks north and south of the town, and these prospered until the end of the century. You can see the flooded clay pits around Chilton Trinity to the north and between Huntworth and the River in the south. Barham Brothers started manufacturing bricks in 1857. In the 1890s there was a total of 16 brick and tile companies, and 24 million bricks per annum were exported during those ten years. Increased industry led to a dramatic growth in the population of  Bridgwater from around 3000 in 1801 to nearly 15,000 in 1901, accompanied by the construction of large Victorian working class suburbs of increasingly high quality. The most modern tile manufacturer to open with advanced technology was that of John Browne & Co on Square Road in Chilton Trinity, later to become the Somerset Trading Company. It was extended in 1933, employed a hundred men, and there was continuous employment until the outbreak of the Second World War.
It was John Board who commissioned the building of  Castle House in Queen Street, originally named Portland Castle after the Portland cement used in its construction. Although mostly made of brick, John Board also experimented with the use of concrete, reinforcing it with iron rods.
In 1939 the tile market was divided between 93% clay, 3% concrete and 4% other. There was not the hoped for boom in the tile industry at the end of the war. Cheaper materials were used to repair all the bomb damage, and by 1953 89% of tiles purchased were of concrete, 4% clay and 7% other. Although Bridgwater clay is of exceptional quality, the presence of sodium chloride and calcium sulphate washed in with the clay caused holes and discoloration, and a tumultuous storm on the 16th January 1959 with a deluge of rain followed by severe frost damaged over 5 million tiles.
Firing bricks in the kiln
The brickyards declined in the 1960s and the last one closed in 1964, due to exhaustion of the best clay and availability of cheaper alternatives.
Nevertheless many older buildings around the eastern side of Exmoor are roofed with Bridgwater tiles, and many houses and other buildings around Bridgwater are made from Bridgwater bricks.
A speciality of Bridgwater was the Bath brick, the precursor of modern scouring pads (see separate article).  Reject bricks of this material, i.e. slightly flawed or deformed, are found in houses and buildings in various parts of the town, particularly Rhode Lane to the south of Bridgwater.
You can learn more about the industry by visiting the Somerset Brick and Tile Museum on East Quay. It is currently open on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Posted in Bridgwater, History, Industrial archaeology, Places to Visit
No Comments
The Bridgwater connection with the CSS Alabama
Posted January 30th, 2012
by Richard Savage
On the wall in the Bygones Room of the Blake Museum hangs the nameplate of the Confederate States Ship Alabama, one of the most successful warships of the Southern States during the American Civil War of 1861-1865.
Those not so well acquainted with American history may not have realized that the American Civil War was not only fought on land between the Northern and Southern States, but that naval battles played a significant role in the war, and also changed the face of naval warfare with the introduction of ironclads, submarines, more powerful artillery, naval mines, and torpedo boats with bombs attached to long spars in the bow of low-profile vessels. These innovations were mostly used by the Confederates to counter the superior naval fighting force of theUnion, possessing, in February 1861, 90 vessels against the Confederates 30, of which only half were seaworthy.
The final Confederate surrender, actually 5 months after war had ended, and the end of the Confederate navy took place on November 6, 1865 aboard the CSS Shenandoah in Liverpool, England. The reason for this was that the Shenandoah had been engaged with sinking merchant ships throughout the war, mostly whalers, and the captain and crew risked being treated and executed as pirates by a Union Court, so they disarmed the ship as a man-of-war and fled to England, surrendering to the British, whose ruling was that they had done nothing against the rules of war and had them all unconditionally released.
Unlike the Shenandoah, which had only engaged with and sunk merchant ships, the Alabama fought with Union warships as well, creating havoc among Union shipping and sinking some 67 sailing ships and one steamship.
A collage of pictures and paintings connected with the story of the CSS Alabama, with thanks to Wikipedia Commons for accessing the sources
So how did the nameplate of the Alabama come to Bridgwater? The ship had been built secretly for the Confederates by John Laird & Son of Birkenhead in 1862. James Dunwood Bulloch, the Confederate secret service agent in Europe arranged the contract through a Liverpoolcotton brokerage company that had ties with the Confederacy. Powered by both sail and horizontal steam engines driving a twin-bladed screw, the ship was launched quietly in July 1862 as the Enrica, and sailed to Terceira Island in the Azores. There she was joined by her new captain, Raphael Semmes, who supervised her transformation into a naval cruiser, a commercial raider, with six 32-pound smooth bore broadside cannons and two central more powerful pivotal long-range guns, fore and aft of the main mast. On the bronze of the great double ship’s wheel was engraved the ship’s motto: “Aide-toi et Dieu t’aidera” (God helps those who help themselves), which is actually not a Bible quotation, and can be misunderstood and thought by some to be a contradiction to the doctrine of salvation by faith and grace.
It actually comes from Ancient Greece to encourage initiative. Aeschylus in his play The Persians wrote, “Whenever a man makes haste, God too hastens with him.” Sophocles wrote, “No good e’er comes of leisure purposeless; and heaven ne’er helps the men who will not act.” Euripides wrote “Try first thyself, and after call in God; For to the worker God Himself lends aid.” When Paul writes to the Romans “it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy”, this is in the context of Jacob and Esau. When God says “Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated” and “I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion” that is according to the laws which He Himself has established and lives by. God shows mercy to those who are merciful, and He gives grace to those who strive to do the good, and pray to Him to help them in their need (Romans 9: 13-16). There is no unrighteousness or partiality with God.  Esau was disobedient to his parents, and went his own rebellious way, whereas Jacob was obedient.  Esau despised his inheritance, whereas Jacob esteemed it highly. God does not approve of swindling, and in other areas He allowed Jacob to be swindled in order to chasten him for his dishonesty. Nevertheless, God loved his attitude, his perseverance, his respect for God, and his hard work, and blessed him, just as He has his descendants today – to the degree that He has been able.
“Trust in God but tie your camel is an Arab proverb with a similar meaning. There is an Arab story that one day Mohammed, noticing a Bedouin leaving his camel without tying it, asked him, “Why don’t you tie down your camel?” The Bedouin answered, “I placed my trust in Allah.” At that, Mohammed said, “Tie your camel and place your trust in Allah. Oliver Cromwell is reported to have said to his men when crossing a river during the invasion ofIreland: “Put your trust in God but mind to keep your powder dry.”
It was actually the Republican politician Algernon Sidney who stated the English rendering of the motto “God helps those who help themselves”. He supported the Republican cause and the execution of Charles I. In 1683, he was condemned to death by Charles II for treason, being implicated in the Rye House Plot to assassinate the king and his half-brother James. The actual sentence was passed by none other than Lord Chief Justice George Jeffreys himself, on flimsy evidence which included taking Sidney’s own writings, his Discourses, out of context, saying that he had said it was permissible to take up arms against the King. Jeffreys ruled: “Scribere est agere” (“to write is to act”) and sentenced him to death. Sidney in defence said that was the same as saying that David said “There is no God” and that the apostles were drunk on the day of Pentecost! On the day of his death Sidney wrote that his life’s work had been to “uphold the Common rights of mankind, the lawes of this land, and the true Protestant religion, against corrupt principles, arbitrary power and Popery… I doe now willingly lay down my life for the same; and having a sure witness within me, that God doth… uphold me… am very littell sollicitous, though man doth condemne me.” Just before being beheaded he declared “We live in an age that makes truth pass for treason.” It was after this that the Duke of Monmouth fled toHolland, returning to Bridgwater in 1685.
Algernon Sidney’s writings had an influence on Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of theUnited States, and he used the quotation in his “Poor Richard’s Almanac” of 1736, from which it received widespread popularity in theUnited States.
Returning to the deck of the Enrica on 24th August 1862, in international waters outside the island of  Terceira, the British colours were hauled down and Captain Semmes commissioned the ship as CSS Alabama by order of  President Jefferson Davis. An appeal to support the Confederate cause was of no avail, but upon the offer of signing up money, double wages paid in gold, and prize money for every Union ship destroyed, Semmes was able to enlist 83 seamen, many British, to serve under his 24 officers. In her voyage of destruction, which lasted under 2 years, captured ship’s crews and passengers were never harmed, only taken aboard and detained until they were placed ashore or transferred to a neutral ship.
Her successful career ended in June 1864 after sailing into Cherbourg Harbourwith permission to overhaul the ship in dry dock. After months of persistent pursuit, she was followed at a distance by the Union Mohican Class steam-driven sloop-of-war, the USS Kearsarge, which while in port at the Azores the year before had been converted into a partial ironclad, the midsections being reinforced with overlapping rows of chain armour. Arriving outside Cherbourg 3 days later, the captain of the Kearsarge, Captain John Winslow, a descendant of one of the Pilgrim Fathers on board the Mayflower, prepared to blockade the Alabama. During the Mexican-American War of 1846-1848, which followed the annexation of Texas, the two officers served together on the USS Cumberland, Semmes as flag lieutenant and Winslow as a division officer.
On 19th June 1864 the CSS Alabama left the Port of Cherbourg, prepared to engage in battle with the USS Kearsarge. She was escorted by a French naval vessel to make sure that the battle occurred outside of the French harbour, but in any case the Kearsarge turned to take the battle out of French territorial waters.  The two warships manoeuvered on seven opposite spiraling courses throughout the battle, aiming to inflict a raking broadside on the enemy’s bows. The gunnery of the Kearsarge was reportedly more accurate than of the Confederates, she fired slowly well-aimed shots while Alabama fired rapidly over 370 rounds, of which only 28 hit the enemy. After just an hour Alabama received shot-holes below the waterline from Kearsarge’s powerful 280 mm Dahlgren pivotal cannons. Captain Semmes struck the Confederate colours and threw his sword into the sea, to avoid the humiliation of the customary surrender, but firing from the Kearsarge only stopped when a white flag was hauled and Semmes sent his remaining dinghy to the Kearsarge to ask for aid.
During the battle, over 40  Confederate sailors were killed in action or drowned. Another 70 or so were picked up by Kearsarge.  Semmes himself was wounded in the battle but rescued, along with 40 of his crewmen, including 14 officers, by the British yacht Deerhound.  Instead of handing them over to the Kearsarge, the Deerhound sailed for Southampton. The angry crew of the Kearsarge wanted to open fire on the British yacht, but Captain Winslow refused, and so the Confederate Captain and his men were able to avoid imprisonment and possibly being sentenced to death for piracy. Semmes was taken to England where he recovered. While there, he and his surviving crew mates were hailed as naval heroes, despite the loss of Alabama .
Semmes returned to America, where he was promoted to Rear Admiral in February 1865, and commanded the James River Squadron from his flagship, the heavily armoured ironclad, CSS Virgina II. With the fall ofRichmond,Virginia, to theUnion in April 1865, he supervised the scuttling of all the squadron’s warships, and was then appointed Brigadier General in the Confederate army, and his sailors became an infantry unit, nicknamed the “Naval Brigade”. Some fought with General Lee’s rearguard at  Sayler’s Creek, but most escaped to join Joseph Johnston’s army in North Carolina, finally surrendering to General William Sherman.
Semmes was briefly held as a prisoner after the war; he was tried for treason on December 15, 1865, but released on April 7, 1866, and returned to civilian life as a professor of philosophy and literature at Louisiana State Seminary (now Louisiana State University), a judge, and a newspaper editor.
Winslow was promoted to Commodore for his victory at the Battle of Cherbourg, and subsequently Rear-admiral in command of the Pacific Squadron from 1870-1872. He was always known as a solid, courageous, determined officer, and two ships of the US Navy have been named after him.
And what about the Deerhound? According to the description in the Blake Museum, the survivors and some of the wreckage of the Alabama were taken to Brixham in Devon. In the late 19th century a member of the Deerhound’s crew moved to Bridgwater, and one of his descendants presented the nameplate to the museum.
But what was the Deerhound and what was it doing at the scene of the battle? Deerhound RYS was a ship of the Royal Yacht Squadron which had been originally founded in 1815 as “The Yacht Club” by 42 gentlemen with an interest in yachting, owning a vessel not under 10 tons. The Prince Regent became a member in 1817, and when he became George IV in 1820 it was renamed the “Royal Yacht Club”. In 1833 William IV renamed it the “Royal Yacht Squadron” and it became associated with the Royal Navy, Admiral Sir Thomas Hardy, Nelson’s Captain at the Battle of Trafalgar, being one of its members. Member yachts can add RYS after their name and are allowed to fly the White Ensign of the British navy.
So next time you visit the Blake Museum, and you see the nameplate of the CSS Alabama on the wall, I hope this will help you to know something of the colourful history behind it and to make it more interesting for you.  What a story could lie behind the two captains who had once been shipmates and were now rivals at war? What moved Captain Winslow to allow his rival to escape to England?
If anyone can supply further information about the Deerhound, its owner and crew, and its capacity to carry 41 survivors of the battle back to England safely, I would be very interested to know. Does anyone also know whether the people of Brixham and Bridgwater had sympathies with the Confederate cause, which is why they received Captain Semmes and his crew so warmly?
Posted in Bridgwater, Church History, General, History, Naval History
No Comments
Blake Museum, Bridgwater
Posted January 29th, 2012
by Richard Savage
This morning I had the pleasure of spending a couple of hours in the Blake Museum, a “must” for anyone who is interested in the historical heritage of this part of Somerset. What made it a particular pleasure was to talk to some of the enthusiastic band of volunteers who give their time and energy to make the museum interesting and attractive to the general public, and to promote interest in our rich local history.
The Bridgwater Museum at the top of Blake Museum, birthplace of Robert Blake
It is a fact: Bridgwater is full of historical interest, and the museum has exhibits from the Stone Age right through to recent times, so much to see in a very small area. Situated at the top of Blake Streetand believed to be the Blake’s family home and birthplace of Robert Blake himself, since 1926 it has housed a fascinating collection of archaeological and historical artifacts and displays. It is now in the process of refurbishment, so opening times were reduced during the winter months.
Those wishing to visit (and I heartily recommend a visit), please consult the website www.bridgwatermuseum.org.uk . Those who already know something about the local history will see much to illustrate and embellish their existing knowledge. For those who aren’t so familiar, I do recommend reading up a bit beforehand so that you can put the pieces of jigsaw puzzle together in your mind, and see the relevance of the different exhibits.
Let me take you on a virtual tour so that you can be prepared for what you will see. The first surprise you will get after entering the historic building is that admission is free. The aim is that nothing should hinder anyone from getting to see for themselves that history and a museum of past remains and relics is far from dead and boring. We must learn from history, and do our outmost to repent from the attitude which the philosopher Georg Hegel immortalized in his saying: “What experience and history teach is this – that people and governments never have learned anything from history, or acted on principles deduced from it.” In other words, no one learns from history. That is certainly true from past events, as seen by the mistakes of leaders like Napoleon and Hitler, although perhaps we can be glad that they made such mistakes, otherwise the course of history might have been quite different!
Turn left after you enter the ground floor and you find a room devoted to the life and exploits of Robert Blake, with artifacts illustrating what it would have been like to be a seaman in those days under Cromwell. Of especial interest is a copy of the Geneva Bible, printed inLondonin 1608 by Robert Barker, printer to James I. This is also known as the “Breeches Bible” from the rendering of Genesis 3: 7 – “The sewed fig trees together and made themselves breeches.” This is the version of the Bible which Blake probably used as a boy.
To the right of the entrance is a meeting room where temporary exhibitions are displayed, and beyond that the Bridgwater Room with a collection of fossils and local geology, remains relating to the medieval Friary and St. John’s Hospital, and material on the history of the Borough. A large 17th century wooden chest once housed the Borough archives. There is also an interesting display on the history of the Bridgwater Borough Police Force, dating back to 1835 when the law was enforced by two constables appointed by the Borough Watch Committee under the Mayor. Later in the 19th century this was increased to a dozen constables, carrying canes. The police station and town gaol were on the south side of Fore Street until 1845 when they moved to the High Street as part of the Town Hall complex. Then in 1911 they moved to Northgate, close to where the present Police Station was opened in 1966. In 1940 the Borough Force amalgamated with the Somerset County Force, which in 1967 merged with the Bath City Police. Finally in 1974 it merged with the Bristol City Police and part of the Gloucestershire Constabulary to become the Avon and Somerset Constabulary.
Ascending the stairs to the upper floor, at the rear of the house is a gallery with an exhibition to the artist John Chubb, born in 1746, the son of a Bridgwater wine and timber merchant, who became mayor of Bridgwater from 1788-1789, and helped to show us what life was like in 18th century Bridgwater through his fine drawings and paintings of scenery and local people. In 1785 he helped to draw up the petition requesting parliament to abolish the slave trade.
At the far end of this gallery is a room devoted to the archaeology of the ancient peoples of the area from the Stone Age through to Medieval times.
Returning to the front of the house are three rooms, the Battle Room, the Maritime Room, and the Bygones Room. The Battle Room depicts the history of the Battle of Sedgemoor in 1685 and its aftermath, the “Bloody Assize” when many Bridgwater people were condemned to death or deported to the West Indies. Some of the artifacts have now been moved to another exhibition in Westonzoyland Church, close to the battlefield itself. The Maritime Room displays artifacts, pictures and models illustrating the days when Bridgwater was a flourishing port with wharves and shipyards. The Bygones Room has a collection of artifacts covering the social history of Bridgwater, including horse brasses, and pottery, and exhibits relating to the brick and tile industry, although of these are now exhibited in the Brick and Tile Museum in East Quay. Of particular interest is the nameplate of the Confederate warship Alabama and an original Bath Brick, both of which deserve a story page of their own.
Returning to the ground floor there is a book shop which sells books and souvenirs. I hope that your tour of the museum will give you a taste of the rich historical heritage of Bridgwater, and the purchase of a souvenir or book, or even a donation to the museum would be a worthy thank-you for the hard work the volunteers are doing to make the history of the area interesting for you, and indicate what other places would be worth a visit.
Posted in Activities, Bridgwater, General, History, Places to Visit
No Comments
“The Hand that rocks the Cradle rules the World”
Posted January 28th, 2012
by Richard Savage
Thinking about famous Bridgwater women I was reminded of the saying “The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world” but not knowing where it came from I looked it up on Google, and found out that it was from a poem written in 1865 by an American poet, William Ross Wallace, to praise motherhood.
Blessings on the hand of women!
Angels guard its strength and grace,
In the palace, cottage, hovel,
Oh, no matter where the place;
Would that never storms assailed it,
Rainbows ever gently curled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rules the world.
Infancy’s the tender fountain,
Power may with beauty flow,
Mother’s first to guide the streamlets,
From them souls unresting grow—
Grow on for the good or evil,
Sunshine streamed or evil hurled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rules the world.
Woman, how divine your mission
Here upon our natal sod!
Keep, oh, keep the young heart open
Always to the breath of God!
All true trophies of the ages
Are from mother-love impearled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rules the world.
Blessings on the hand of women!
Fathers, sons, and daughters cry,
And the sacred song is mingled
With the worship in the sky—
Mingles where no tempest darkens,
Rainbows evermore are hurled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rules the world.
He was a personal friend of Edgar Allen Poe, who described him as “one of the very noblest of American poets.” His work has been compared to the Romantic poetry of Shelley and Keats. Of Scottish descent, the son of a Presbyterian minister who died when Wallace was very young, there are strong religious convictions in his writings, and he was also extremely patriotic, eulogizing the American Revolution, the work of George Washington, and inspiring the Union Army in the American Civil War.
Although 100% American, his roots were in Scotlandand one of his less well-known poems, an ode written in 1860 on the birthday of Charles Wesley, conveys some beautiful imagery which fits well for Somerset, as well as other parts of our fair land.
O England, through thy lovely vales
And emerald hills how many now
In memory of the poet-priest
With rapt devotion bow!
Along the city’s sounding street,
In cottage nooks, in lordly halls,
On village spire, and temple dome
A still, sweet influence falls—
For myriads whisper of the birth
That gave another bard to Earth.
Nor only there: from my own Land
Pull many a blessing o’er the wave
Floats like an angel’s wing to gild
His cradle and his grave.
Our Fanes have also felt his soul;
Our forest-temples grand and dim,
Filled with ecstatic worshipers,
Have trembled to his hymn:
Still seem they bowed with praise and prayer.—
The soul of Wesley lingers there!
Well have the nations blessed the bards,
And, gladdened by their ministerings,
Their foreheads bound with holier wreaths
Than ever shone on kings:
Lo! Scio’s old blind Glory crowned;
And Dante diademed with fire
Imperial by the large-eyed Times,
And Byron’s battle-lyre:
No royal flag o’er them unfurled,
Yet they are Emperors of the world!
If thus the Shapes that draw from Earth,
The soul of song, are rulers made,
How should the Heaven-invoking Ones
By continents be arrayed?
Not from Olympian groves their wreath!
Go search Silon’s sacred bowers;
On Zion’s grander mountain walk
And gather stateliest flowers—
These crown the souls that sing of Him
Who wandered there with cherubim.
And such the crown that thou didst wear,
Sweet singer by old Albion’s wave!
And Death himself could not destroy,
But placed it on thy grave.
How glorious its unfaded leaves
Shall on thy pure white forehead bloom,
When, with a hymn upon thy lips,
Thou’lt glitter from the tomb,
And, myriads joining in the lay,
Soar to the choir of Heaven away!
When thinking about the importance of motherhood, and what a mother in the home can contribute to society and the history of the world, we have only to think of Suzannah Wesley, and the impact that her two sons, Charles and John, made. She did not preach from the pulpit, or have any position or title, but through her faithful life in the home, she raised god-fearing children who were able to bring new life to many people in times of need and distress.
We should be very thankful for women with gifts and talents that can serve in administrative positions, and fulfil many tasks better than men. How many of us are eternally grateful for the women who nursed us and taught us, and the midwives who helped us into the world. But can we really honour our mothers adequately for their life of love and sacrifice, day and night, raising children to manhood and womanhood?
It is clear that Bridgwater women like Maud de Braose were instrumental in changing the course of English history, but what about the mother of Robert Blake and all the other “unknown warriors” whose children have been a blessing to society?
If anyone can add to our gallery of local women who have lived and done things worthy of honour and emulation, do let us know.
Posted in Bridgwater, Church History, General, History, Literature
No Comments
Pioneering Bridgwater – not “revolting” but “revolutionary”!
Posted January 28th, 2012
by Richard Savage
Reputations are often based on whose side you are. For the oppressed, activists and zealots are seen as “freedom fighters” while to the ruling nation they are seen as “terrorists”.
On a similar note, I have heard that the pretty garden plant, Dianthus barbatus, also known as “Sweet William” was named after William, Duke of Cumberland, who led the British troops to victory over the Scots at the Battle of Culloden in 1746. The Scottish call it “Stinking Willy”.
What fighting and feuds could be avoided if both sides could sit down together and see things from the other side’s point of view. But as long as we think “I am right, and you are wrong” there will be fighting, domestically, politically and internationally. What characterizes a tyrant and dictator is usually that they will not consider anything but their own interests.
The few instances already mentioned under “Revolting Bridgwater” can be balanced by examples when Bridgwater has been innovative and pioneering, in politics, industry, science and the arts.
Bridgwater was the first town in Englandto petition parliament for the abolition of slavery. It is interesting that Daniel Defoe, the author of “Robinson Crusoe”, came down from London to support Monmouth’s rebellion in 1685 but somehow escaped capture and managed to be one of 33 people who received a pardon from the King (perhaps by buying it). Born in London to Presbyterian Dissenters, he chose not to follow his father’s wishes and become a minister, but became a merchant, and well acquainted with the treatment of slaves. Whilst in hiding after the Duke of Monmouth’s execution he noticed the name “Robinson Crusoe” in a churchyard. He remembered the name and it became the title of his most famous hero some 34 years later, heralded by many as the first novel written in English in 1719.
Over 600 Bridgwater men who escaped execution for being incriminated in the Monmouth rebellion were deported in eight ships toBarbadosand became slaves there. They suffered the appalling conditions on board ship that negro slaves suffered, imprisoned below deck, and some died on the quayside while awaiting being auctioned. Some survivors returned home after being pardoned 4 years later, and perhaps it is no concidence that 100 years after having had first-hand experience of its horrors, in 1785 the people of Bridgwater sent a petition to parliament to abolish the African slave trade. Perhaps it is a bit strange that it took 100 years for this to take place. It is sometimes said that this was also influenced by a desire to compete commercially with Bristol, whose trade had increased through the exploitation of slavery, but there was also considerable support from local Quakers. The mayor of Bridgwater, William Tuckett, was approached by the clergyman George White and by John Chubb, the artist, to draw up the petition which was presented to Parliament by Bridgwater’s two MPs, Lord Ann Poulett and Alexander Hood, Lord Bridport. It was considered “unworthy of debate” on the grounds that too many people of wealth stood to lose too much if slavery was abolished, and lead to financial ruin in the West Indies.
However, by 1787 The Committee for the Abolition of the Slave Trade had been formed by a group of English Evangelical Protestants along with Quakers, led by William Wilberforce, and by 1807 there were a significant number of supporters in the parliament, and the motion to abolish the Atlantic Slave Trade was carried by 283 votes to 16 in the House of Commons. This moving story is vividly portrayed in the film “Amazing Grace”.
Of course, what Bridgwater is most famous for is its night-time carnival, the largest in Europe, to commemorate the Gunpowder Plot of 1605 when Guy Fawkes and his fellow conspirators attempted to blow up the Houses of Parliament with King James I and his government. The king decreed that the day should be celebrated annually with gratitude by the lighting of bonfires across the country. Perhaps because Bridgwater was stoutly Protestant, the occasion was embraced more enthusiastically than other places in Englandwith a huge bonfire in the middle of the town around which people from all around gathered in masks and costumes, throwing effigies of Guy Fawkes and the Pope on the fire, and later adding a firework display with hundreds of home-made squibs. Nowadays, dancers known as masqueraders act in costume on tractor-drawn floats, built by local clubs, with different themes illuminated by thousands of generator-driven electric light bulbs. The evening finishes with a squibbing display that is unique to Bridgwater, when over 140 squibs are let off at arms length along the length of the High Street.
Guy Fawkes discovered - on one of the leading carnival floats
One of the historical floats remembering the discovery of the Gunpowder Plot
We have written about some of the industrial archaeological technology which makes Bridgwater unique in the world, the first reinforced and pre-cast concrete structures of Castle House in Queen Street and the telescopic railway bridge across the River Parrett, the Black Bridge.
We have also written about the pioneering exploits of Robert Blake in the field of naval history.
If you can think of any other examples to discoveries, inventions or pioneering work that Bridgwater should be excited about, please let me know.
Posted in Bridgwater, General, History
No Comments
Outstanding Bridgwater Women
Posted January 28th, 2012
by Richard Savage
Thinking about the role that Maud de Braose played in shaping the course of English history made me think that there are not so many Bridgwater women who are renowned in one way or another.
Lady Chrystabella Wyndham, the strikingly beautiful wife of the staunchly Anglican Governor of Bridgwater Castle, Edmund Wyndham, achieved fame in 1645 when the Parliamentarians sought to take the town from Royalist control. Following their defeat in July 10th at the Battle of Langport, many Royalists fled for safety to Bridgwater Castle. The New Model Army under the command of General Sir Thomas Fairfax and Lieutenant-General Oliver Cromwell then advanced to Bridgwater and encircled the town with some 13,000 troops. The Royalists numbered about 2000 men. Roundhead ships also patrolled Bridgwater Bay preventing Royalist ships bringing supplies or reinforcements to the castle.
The story is told that on 12th July, Fairfax, Cromwell and an aide-de-camp stood on the east side of the River Parrett, close to where the Bus Station stands today, and viewed the castle with its defences. Hearing that the enemy leaders were in view, Lady Wyndham went up to the castle ramparts with a loaded musket and fired at Cromwell, missing him by some 6 feet but killing his aide-de-camp. She is supposed to have sent a message then to Cromwell asking him if he had received her “love token”, as a gentleman he should return it, in other words challenging him to attack the castle.
Whether this is true or not, an appeal to the Governor to surrender was refused, and at 2 a.m. on Monday 21st July the Roundheads attacked. Portable bridges were thrown over the town ditch on the north side of Eastover, troops poured into the town, taking control of the whole east side of the river with 600 prisoners, seized the East Gate, and lowered the drawbridge on the Town Bridge. A further summons to surrender was refused, and the Royalists set the area around Eastover ablaze with grenades and hot shot fired across the river.
In a further gesture of defiance, when Fairfax’s messenger came to offer terms for the surrender, Lady Wyndham is supposed to have clutched her breasts and thrust them into the face of the messenger, saying “Tell your master that the breasts which gave suck to Prince Charles shall never be at their mercy; we will hold the town to the last.” She had been the wet nurse to Charles II.
Nevertheless, on receiving the message, from 2 – 4 p.m. on Tuesday 22nd July,Fairfax declared a truce to allow the women and children to leave the castle. Colonel Wyndham received his offer and the women left in safety, including Lady Wyndham. Finally the Governor surrendered the next morning on condition that all lives should be spared.
Wyndham was imprisoned, but subsequently escaped in 1649 to join Charles II inJersey. With the Restoration of the monarchy, he became Member of Parliament. He died with jaundice in 1681, and Lady Christabella married Sir Giles Eyre, politician and judge, in 1690. After he died in 1695, she is purported to have married a Scottish Papist, Lord Clasford, only to separate from him 4 years later, when he became a prisoner in debt, and she pleaded to the King for financial assistance to save her from starvation.
Charles II was infamous for his extra-marital relationships, and the popular story is that these began when he was only 15 at Bridgwater Castle with Lady Christabella, when he was sent there for safety by his father, before fleeing to the Channel Isles and then France.
On a more virtuous note, though even more adventurous, is the story of Isolde Parawastel. She was one of a number of women who made a pilgrimage to Jerusalemin the 14th-15th centuries. On 15th January 1366, she visited the Pope, Urban V, in Avignon, with the story that after 3 years in the Holy Land, visiting Jerusalem, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and other Biblical places, she had been captured by the Muslims, stripped and hung upside down in a rack and beaten half-dead, only to miraculously escape and travel back safely by boat.  Certainly in 1365 the Muslims took reprisals on Christian pilgrims for the un-Christian sack ofAlexandria by Crusaders.
Isolda sought permission to build a chantry shrine or chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary in Bridgwater for the salvation of her soul and of those of her family, to pay for the priest an annual amount of 36 florins, or about 5 pounds and 8 shillings, and her family was to hold it in jus patronatus [right of patronage in Catholic law] in perpetuity.  Such requests to found a chantry with the right of patronage were almost or completely unknown, permission normally being granted, if requested at all, by the local rector and bishop.
However, instead of building a new church, the pope gave her permission to found and endow an altar in Bridgwater’s existing parish church. He also agreed to a separate petition that whoever came to pray at the altar on appointed feast days, provided that first they had repented, confessed and their sins absolved, would receive a partial indulgence pardoning them the standard period of one year and forty days punishment or penance enjoined for their sins, which would reduce the time to be spent in purgatory after death, but more importantly for this life would have attracted visitors, prayers and additional income for the church!
Clare Street, Bridgwater, formerly the east end of Horlocke Street in medieval times
Two years later, on 10 August 1368, Isolda Parewastel granted away a property in Horloke Streetwhich had been given in 1321 to “John Parewastell and his sister Isolda.” So in 1368 she was apparently unmarried and, at the very least, 47 years old.  Isolda must have known that for over 100 years Bridgwater parish church already possessed a chantry and chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary. There is no trace of it today, but Isolda’s chantry to the Virgin Mary may have been placed at the extreme east end of the chancel, close beside the very interesting and curious piscina (basin for washing communion vessels) and aumbry (cabinet for storing the vessels) on the south side, just eastward of the priest’s door on the south. Perhaps her remains lie under this very spot.
What was the medieval Horlocke Street(or Ordlof  Street) is now Clare Street, to the east of Angel Place, and here the Civic Society have erected a blue plaque to the memory of Isolda Parawastel.
Blue Plaque to the memory of Isolda Parawastel in Clare Street
I am indebted to Roger Evans, one of Bridgwater’s local historians, for telling us about another remarkable Bridgwater woman, Sarah Biffin, the 19th century painter. You can read the detailed account in his book “Forgotten Heroes of Bridgwater” (2000).
She was born on October 25th 1784, the third child of a farm labourer and shoemaker from East Quantoxhead, Henry Biffin and his wife Sarah, married in 1772. Their first son had died in infancy, their second son was born 5 years later, and then Sarah was born 6 years later – with the congenital deformity known as phocomelia – without any arms and just vestigial legs. This condition became well-known during the late 1950s as a consequence of mothers taking the drug thalidomide during pregnancy.
When she was 8 years old she wanted to be able to sow, and managed with much practice to thread a needle, tie knots, cut out with scissors and make her own dresses – using her mouth. Then at the age of 12 she taught herself to write using her mouth. At Sunday services she would refuse offers of assistance and rolled down the aisle till she came to the family pew.
The annual St. Matthew’s Fair at Bridgwater attracted people from all around, and she herself became an attraction, along with all the other oddities exhibited at fairgrounds. There at the age of 13 she joined the travelling side show of a Mr. Emmanuel Dukes, and said farewell to her parents and two younger sisters. For the next 18 years she travelled the fairgrounds of England, exhibiting her skill in drawing and dress-making, earning £5 a year and living as one of Mr. Dukes’ family. Fully grown at the age of 20, she never exceeded 37 inches in height. She was keen to learn to paint, and after a year she was producing such fine miniatures that she was billed as “the eighth wonder of the world.”
She was once commissioned by the Earl of Morton to paint his portrait, and the completed work shown to George III. He arranged for her to have lessons from the Royal Academy painter, William Craig. She developed the technique of holding the brush in her mouth with the handle end passed through a loop on her shoulder, and so produced paintings two and a half inches across to the highest standard.
Although the Earl of Morton wanted her to leave fairground life, Sarah respected the contract made with Mr. Dukes and all the kindness he had shown her, and it wasn’t until 1816 that she had her own residence in The Crescent in Cheltenham, moving in 1819 to a studio in London. Her fame was perpetuated by Charles Dickens in several of his books –Little Dorritt, Nicholas Nickleby, Martin Chuzzlewit, and the Old Curiosity Shop. In 1821 the Earl of Morton took her to Brussels, where she became patronized by the Prince of Orange, and painted for the Dutch Court until 1822.
A water-colour of Sarah Biffen in the Museum of Somerset, Taunton Castle, believed to be a self-portrait
In 1824 she married a London Bank clerk, William Wright, at Kilton, near Kilve. They never lived together, but he took care of her finances, granting her just £40 a year, until he left her – impoverished. The Earl of Morton died in 1827, and so she returned to a travelling fairground life to earn money. When she appealed to her former patrons for financial help, she was granted a Civil List pension of £12 a year by the monarch.
She moved to Liverpool, and after a protracted illness with breathing difficulties, she died in poverty in her lodgings in 1850. The inscription on her grave in St. James’ Cemetery is a tribute to her life:
“Few have passed through the Vale of Life so much the Child of hapless fortune as the deceased; and yet possessor of mental Endowments of no ordinary kind.
Gifted with singular talents as an Artist, thousands have been gratified with the able productions of her pencil, whilst versatile conversation and agreeable manners elicited the admiration of All.
This tribute to one so universally admired is paid by those who were best acquainted with the character it so briefly portrays. Do any enquire otherwise the answer is supplied in the solemn admonition of the Apostle.
See 1 Cor.: Chap: 4 Verse 5 [“Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each one’s praise will come from God.”]
“Now no longer the subject of tears
Her conflict and trials are o’er
In the presence of God she appears
On the calm of Eternity’s shore.”
What an amazing life story. Born into poverty and dying in poverty, overcoming tremendous physical handicaps to give pleasure to others, betrayed in marriage, yet dying without bitterness – we will see how God will bless her in the life to come. I am reminded of the story of Lazarus the beggar, covered in sores at the rich man’s gate, told by Jesus, and recounted by Dr. Luke (Luke 16: 19-31). Had Lazarus been full of bitterness towards the rich man I think he would have driven the dogs away angrily instead of letting them lick his sores. But after he died, the angels carried him to paradise, to the place of fellowship with Abraham and all those who had lived for God and for others, and not themselves, while the rich man went to be with all those who had only lived for themselves and their own pleasure. There is a great gulf then which cannot be passed either way, so, whether we are blessed with much or little, with health or sickness, now is the time to decide to keep the two greatest commandments which sums up everything – to love God and to love our neighbour as ourselves. That will decide our future in eternity.
Posted in Bridgwater, General, History
No Comments
“Revolting” Bridgwater
Posted January 27th, 2012
by Richard Savage
There have been a number of historical events that have given Bridgwater something of a bad reputation, so much so that people might repeat Nathanael’s famous saying about Jesus: “Can anything good come out of Nazareth!” Well, we know that something very glorious came out of the dry ground of a young man, considered by the locals as being conceived out of wedlock, the son of a poor carpenter. In those days  a “tekton” was the Greek word for an artisan in stone and wood, who could be employed in anything from making ploughs and other tools, to being a building labourer.
Bridgwater has always been a town of workers, and a major industrial centre in Somerset. As a port it was once in competition with Bristol. The people had to work hard not to be poor, and in their zeal they often cried out against the injustices of the rich – sometimes taking things too far and rebelling against the authorities of the day. We have referred to the Brickyard Workers Riot in 1896, when the Riot Act had to be employed. That was not the first time that the people of Bridgwater earned a reputation for being “revolting”.  On the other hand the autocratic conduct of Charles I towards Parliament led people like Robert Blake to support Oliver Cromwell in the civil war, believing sincerely they were fighting for the good of their country against royalist and religious injustice.
Most people know about the Monmouth rebellion if 1685, when disaffection with the rule of James II by many Englishmen, particularly Protestants in the West Country, encouraged James Scott, Duke of Monmouth, the illegitimate son of Charles II by his mistress, the Welsh noblewoman, Lucy Walter, to return from Holland and raise an army to seize the throne. After the death of Charles II, his half-brother James had taken the throne, so Monmouth had to flee to Holland as a potential pretender to the throne. After being acclaimed as king in Chard and then Taunton, he was proclaimed king of England by the major of Bridgwater on the steps of the High Cross in the town centre, outside the main gate to the castle, close to where Lloyds Bank stands to day. Many Bridgwater people joined Monmouth’s army, only to be defeated at the Battle of Sedgemoor, and then being hunted down as traitors, killed in the countryside, or captured and hung, or else subsequently tried, sentenced and executed or deported to Barbados in the “Bloody Assizes” conducted by Judge Jefferies. James II visited Bridgwater briefly in 1686 and declared it to be a “rebel town”.
For those interested in living history, the Sealed Knot re-enactment society have re-enacted important parts of the rebellion’s campaign, on the 300th anniversary in 1985, and again in 2005. For the first re-enactment, the Preston-based folk trio Strawhead, which specializes in historical British music, produced an album of various songs from the time and written especially, entitled ‘Sedgemoor’.
During the Second Barons’ War of 1264-1267 against Henry III, Bridgwater was held by the barons against the King. This revolt was largely due to the king imposing higher taxes during a time of famine, but politics is never a straight-forward matter. The leader of the barons was Simon de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, who had apparently married Henry’s sister Eleanor without his permission, resulting in bad relationships between them. In 1258, Simon in an effort to reassert the Magna Carta and force the king to surrender more power to the baronial council led seven leading barons to force Henry to agree on oath to the Provisions of Oxford, which effectively abolished the absolute power of the king and gave authority to a council of 24 barons to deal with the business of government and providing for a parliament every three years. In 1261 Henry obtained a papal bull exempting him from his oath, and civil wall followed between the royalists under the king’s son, Edward Longshanks, and the barons under Simon de Montfort. After the Battle of Lewes in 1264 the king and his son were held prisoner, while parliament in Westminster ruled England for just 15 months. Then Edward escaped, raised a royalist army, and defeated the barons, killing Simon de Montfort, at the Battle of Evesham in 1265.
Bridgwater’s connection with this was because Bridgwater Castle then belonged to the beautiful Maud (or Matilda) de Braose,  Baroness Wigmore, the wife of Roger Mortimer, 1st Baron Wigmore.  She was a staunch royalist, a very able woman, who devised the rescue plan that enabled Prince Edward to escape from the custody of Simon de Montfort at Hereford Castle while he was taking exercise outside of the castle, and flee to Wigmore Castle, 20 miles away in Herefordshire. Furthermore it was her husband Roger who killed Simon de Montfort at the Battle of Evesham, and sent the severed head and other parts of his anatomy to his wife as a gift to where she was staying at Wigmore Castle. Maud died around 1300 and is buried in Wigmore Abbey. Interestingly. Many queens of are descended from Maud de Braose, including Mary Queen of Scots, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour,  Catherine  Howard, and Catherine Parr.
One of the most serious revolts in medieval times was the peasant’s revolt of 1381 when King Richard II was only 14 years old. Since Norman times peasants were compelled to work for the lord of the manor and for the church without payment, other than the privilege of having their own parcel of land on which to live and to farm. This compulsory labour made it hard for them to earn enough to support their own families, and when the king introduced a poll tax, largely to finance the war in France, the peasants revolted, first in Kent, and then marched to London. Negotiations with the king and the Lord Major of Londonended in violence, the leader of the peasants Wat Tyler was killed, and their requests were not met. Meanwhile In Bridgwater 2 days of violence followed a public demonstration in the market place on Wednesday 19th June. The crowd then marched to St. John’s Hospital and demanded certain documents and bonds, money and the tithes that were due to the vicar, or they would burn down the hospital. Their demands were met, but the mob then marched on the landowner John Sydenham’s properties, destroying his houses, stealing money and burning documents. They then burnt down one of the properties belonging to Thomas Duffeld, the town’s leading lawyer, before marching along the river to Chilton Trinity where they killed Walter Baron, returning with his head on a pike to place on the Town Bridge. Next day the mob went to Ilchester to release the prisoners from the gaol on the bridge, and executed the head jailor, Hugh Lavenham, whose head was also displayed on the Town Bridge.
That seemed to be the end of the “outrage” but 4 days later the King’s Council proclaimed Bridgwater to be “contumacious” or willfully disobedient to an order of court. When a general amnesty was declared, Bridgwater was one of the last towns to be pardoned.
In 1497 Bridgwater supported the Cornishmen’s revolt. Protesting against excessive taxation by Henry VII to fund wars against the Scots, 15,000 Cornishmen in marched peaceably toLondon, apart from one isolated incident inTaunton, where a tax commissioner was killed. They were joined by many English people along the way, only to be overwhelmed by 25,000 royalist troops at the Battle of Deptford Bridge (Blackheath), and their leaders, the blacksmith Michael An Gof (Angove) and the lawyer Thomas Flamank, being hung, drawn and quartered at Tyburn. The Cornish rose a second time in September, 1497, when Perkin Warbeck landed inCornwall, claiming to be the rightful heir to the throne, as the younger son of Edward IV, one of the princes in the Tower. He was proclaimed as King Richard IV at Bodmin. 6,000 flocked to his banner and followed him to Exeter and Taunton, where he experienced resistance, and the arrival of King’s troops. He eventually surrendered and was cross-examined by the King in Taunton Castle, whereupon he confessed that he was an imposter.  He was imprisoned in the Tower of London and finally hanged in 1499 after conspiring to escape with the Earl of Warwick.
On a musical note, the well-known “Song of the Western Men” has nothing to do with the Cornishmen’s Rebellion of 1497, but was written in 1824 by the vicar of Morwenstow, Robert Hawker, to describe the events of 1688 when Jonathan Trelawny, Bishop of Bristol, was one of the seven bishops imprisoned in the Tower of London by James II, for opposing the second Declaration of Indulgence giving freedom to Catholics and Non-conformists to worship on their own premises. They were tried and found not guilty of seditious libel.
Generally speaking, Somerset people are very loyal to the crown – as long as the monarch proves loyal to the country! In this year of Queen Elizabeth’s Diamond Jubilee, we can only thank God for such a monarch who has dedicated herself to serving God and her people to the best of her ability for 60 years, despite much personal sorrow and conflict. Unlike many kings of the past, she has listened to her Prime Ministers and members of parliament, and given her assent to difficult decisions. May our love, respect and prayers continue to support her at this time of her life. Long live the Queen!
Finally, can anyone tell me about the background to this song of Frederick Weatherly:
Oh, we come up from Somerset, to see the Great Review;
There was Mary drest in her Sunday best, and our boy Billee too.
The drums were rolling rub-a-dub, the trumpets tootled too,
When right up rode His Majesty, an’ says ‘An who be you?’
‘Oh, we’m come up from Somerset, where the cider apples grow,
We’m come to see your Majesty, an’ how the world do go.
And when you’re wanting anyone, if you’ll kindly let us know,
We’ll all come up from Somerset, because we loves you so!’
Then the Queen she look’d at Mary, ‘An’ what’s your name?’ she said,
But Mary blush’d like any rose, an’ hung her pretty head.
So I ups and nudges Mary, ‘Speak up and tell her, do!’
So she said ‘If it please, your Majesty, my name is Mary too!
An’ we’m come up from Somerset, where the cider apples grow,
Where the gals can hem an’ sew an’ stitch, and also reap and hoe,
An’ if you’re wanting any gals, an’ will kindly let us know,
We’ll all come from Somerset, because we loves you so!’
Then the King look’d down at Billee-boy, before they rode away,
‘An’ what is he going for to be?’ His Majesty did say.
So Billee pull’d his forelock, and stood up trim and true,
‘Oh, I’m going to be a soldier, Sir, for I wants to fight for you!
For we’m come up from Somerset, where the cider apples grow,
For we’re all King’s men in Somerset, as they were long, long ago,
An’ when you’re wanting soldier boys, an’ there’s fighting for to do,
You just send word to Somerset, an’ we’ll all be up for you!’
Does anybody know to which Queen Mary and therefore to which King he was referring? Was it  Mary, the eldest daughter of James II, who married William of Orange, a grandson of Charles I, and reigned from 1688-1702?
Posted in Bridgwater, Church History, General, History, Songs
No Comments
Somerset’s Rich Industrial Archaeological Heritage
Posted January 27th, 2012
by Richard Savage
Not only locally around Bridgwater, but throughout the county generally, Somerset has so much to discover and be experienced by those with an interest in industrial archaeology. This may seem strange for a county that is largely rural, but nevertheless the industries of the past have left their marks on the landscape, right back to prehistoric man in the Mendips when he made tools from flint, antlers and bones. Actually, one must not confuse the term “industrial archaeology”, which describes the systemic study of structures and artifacts as a means of understanding the industrial past, with “archaeological industry” which relates to periods of prehistory characterized by certain types of artifact, and perhaps better described as “archaeological cultures”.
Industrial archaeology has really only developed as a recognized form of study in the past 50 years, previously being regarded as a hobby for eccentric amateurs. But now it contributes a great deal to our knowledge of the past, and the preservation and restoration of different industries has also been of great value to promoting tourism.
The Somerset Industrial Archaeological Society (SIAS) was founded in 1972 for those interested in all aspects of the industrial history and heritage of Somerset. The work of SIAS has included excavations, site surveys, ‘rescue’ operations for old machinery and the listing of significant industrial buildings, along with holding regular meetings. An integral part of their programme is “fossicking”, from an Australian word mean to rummage or search for something. This is a really exciting activity, combining the thrills of exploration, discovery and detection. It was exciting to read on the SIAS website about a fossicking expedition made in May 2010 to North Petherton, a small town hardly noted for any industrial heritage. Although some of the most interesting industrial premises had now been redeveloped (including an acetylene gasworks and Starkey’s brewery) the explorers found a surprising amount of infrastructure surviving from previous industrial activities, including three mill sites with mill ponds or leats, the pre- and post-1822 turnpike roads, a malthouse, and other aspects of social archaeology such as schools and assembly rooms, thus learning much more about the history and development of the town.
On the SIAS website it was exciting to read about one of Bridgwater’s unique buildings, Castle House in Queen Street, receiving £110,000 from English Heritage towards the cost of scaffolding and an architect to draw up plans for refurbishment and conversion to housing, after years of lying derelict and being threatened with demolition. Regarded as something of a “folly”, it was constructed in 1851 by John Board, a local builder and manufacturer of bricks and tiles, who wanted to experiment building with new materials such as concrete. It was way ahead of its time in using a variety of shapes and textures including moulded precast concrete from Portland cement to produce the gargoyles, arches and various decorative features, and the use of iron to make reinforced concrete floors and roof constructions. It may well be the earliest building using reinforced concrete in the world.
Castle House in Queen Street
Taken in February 2009
Pre-cast concrete figures and ornamentation
Concrete ornamental frieze
Another unique industrial archaeological site in Bridgwater is the “Black Bridge” across the River Parrett. Situated immediately north of the Chandos Bridge, where the road known as The Clink, crosses the river, the Black Bridge was a telescopic standard gauge railway bridge over the River Parrett. Built in 1870 to link Bridgwater Docks with the main railway line, it was used originally by horse-drawn wagons pulling trucks. Now it is used by pedestrians and cyclists.
The Black Bridge, formerly the telescopic railway bridge, over the River Parrett
This ingenious telescopic bridge was supported on two large piers, one each side of the river. When ships came up the river, a section of the rail track on the east side of the river, would be slid sideways into an open space alongside the track. There were two independent plate girder spans, a fixed  20 m (66 ft) shorter span, and a movable 40 m (131 ft) longer span supported by skids and rollers which could be retracted into the open space, to allow the passage of shipping. Operated manually at first, steam power was introduced after a year.
Warning notice "rescued" after the closure of the telescopic bridge (by kind permission of the Somerset Brick & Tile Museum)
It was last opened in 1953. The mechanism was removed in 1974, the steam engine is now in the Westonzoyland Pumping Station Museum (another ‘must’ for industrial archaeologists, but the skids and rollers can still be seen today.
Who was actually responsible for designing the bridge? Most references on Google attribute it to none other than the famous engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel, but in Wikipedia it is stated that it was Sir Francis Fox, the engineer for the Bristol and Exeter Railway, with a cross reference to the Sir Francis Fox (1844-1927) who was the civil engineer responsible for the bridges over the Zambesi at the Victoria Falls and Sidney harbour, the Mersey Railway Tunnel, the Liverpool Overhead Railway, the Snowdon Mountain Railway, the Simplon Tunnel, and for extending the London Underground. He became the engineer for the Great Central Railway. He was a deeply religious man and in his autobiography  “Sixty-three Years of Engineering, Scientific and Social Work”, published in 1924, he wrote about the harpooner James Bartley, who in 1891 was swallowed by a sperm whale. The whale was killed next day, and Bartley was found still alive in the whale’s stomach. He had read this in a newspaper, and saw this as confirmation of the story of Jonah and the whale. Sadly, detailed investigation of the story since have failed to verify the truth of the adventure, although it is perfectly possible. Jesus Himself referred to the story of Jonah and there is much we can learn from it for our own edification and salvation, but faith needs to be built on the word of God and not newspaper stories which may or may not be true.
But was this the Francis Fox who designed the telescopic Black Bridge?There was another engineer of that name who lived from 1818-1914. Not surprisingly with that name, Francis Edward Fox came from a Quaker family and was educated at Friends’ Schools at Croydon and Sidcot. In 1835 he became a pupil of Edwin Octavius Tregelles, the Quaker civil engineer and missionary, and in 1839 became associated with the Cornwall Central Railway Project. In 1846 he joined Isambard Brunel as assistant engineer on the South Wales Railway, and in 1854 he was appointed engineer of the Bristol & Exeter Railway until it was taken over by the Great Western Railway. Amongst other projects he was responsible for the Weston-super-Mare loop, and many fine station designs including Bristol Temple Meads,Taunton, Exeter St. David’s, Weston-super-Mare, Torquay, Teignmouth, all the stations on the Devon & Somerset Railway between Taunton & Barnstaple, and all those on the Exe Valley line between Exeter and Morebath Junction. Some of these projects were carried out after the B&ER amalgamated with the GWR in 1876. He was also one of the chief proponents of the Absolute Block signaling system which allows only one train to occupy a defined section of track at a time.
I would like to suggest that this is the person most likely to have been responsible for the Black Bridge, but would be glad for anyone to come forward with further evidence for one or the other.
That is what makes history and archaeology so interesting, just like putting a jigsaw puzzle together. Sometimes the pieces fit perfectly – or we think they do until we find a piece that doesn’t fit, and then we realize the bit we thought had been fitted correctly wasn’t as perfect a fit as we thought. In fact, it was in the wrong place, and now we have found a better solution.
Posted in Bridgwater, Church History, General, History, Industrial archaeology
No Comments
Home Home Page
Read More
Activities
Bridgwater
Events
General
History
Church History
Industrial archaeology
Medical History
Naval History
Literature
Lower Lakes News
Natural History
Out of the Ordinary
Places to Visit
Songs
Other Links
Recent Posts
The Somerset Coat of Arms and the Somerset Dragons
March 26, 2012
Somerset’s Romantic Poets
February 29, 2012
Spring is here at Lower Lakes
February 27, 2012
Another Notable Bridgwater Naval Man
February 15, 2012
How many bridges are there in Bridgwater?
February 13, 2012
Out of the Ordinary – Unusual Visitors
February 4, 2012
More living “bricks” of Bridgwater – Naval Heroes
Red Stems in Winter – the Siberian Dogwood
February 3, 2012
The living “bricks” of Bridgwater – Outstanding Soldiers
The beginning and end of the Bridgwater Brick and Tile Industry
February 1, 2012
Contact Info
-  Lower Lakes -  Straight Drove-  Chilton Trinity TA5 2BQ -  Somerset -  England-  Telephone: 01278 - 433066-  Mobile: 0752 666 84 92 -  Email: click here
Follow Us
Lower Lakes Ltd © Copyright 2010