  
 
 
 
 
 
 Module 1      Introduction Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  Lesson 1   Introduction and Course Outline      Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Specific Instructional Objective On Completion of this lesson, the students will be able to: 
 Define Computer Networks  State the evolution of
 Computer Networks 
 Categorize different types of Computer Networks 
 Specify some of the application of Computer Networks
 1.1.1 Introduction 
The concept of Network is not new. In simple terms it means an interconnected set of 
some objects. For decades we are familiar with the Radio, Television, railway, Highway, 

Bank and other types of networks. In recent ye
ars, the network that is making significant 
impact in our day-to-day life is the 
Computer network
. By computer network we mean 
an interconnected set of autonomous computer
s. The term autonomous implies that the 
computers can function independent of others
. However, these computers can exchange 
information with each other through the 
communication network system. Computer 
networks have emerged as a result of the 
convergence of two technologies of this century- Computer and Communication as shown in Fig. 1.1.1. The consequence of this revolutionary merger is the emergence of a in
tegrated system that transmit all types of 
data and information. There is no fundament
al difference between data communications 
and data processing and there are no fundamental differe
nces among data, voice and 
video communications.  After a brief historical background in Section 1.1.2, Section 1.1.2 introduces different network categories. A brief overview of the applications of computer 

networks is presented in Section 1.1.3. Finally 
an outline of the entire course is given in 
Section 1.1.4.   Figure 1.1.1 Evolution of computer networks Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur 1.1.2 Historical Background 
  The history of electronic computers is not very
 old. It came into existence in the early 
1950s and during the first two decades of its exis
tence it remained as a centralized system 
housed in a single large room. In those days 
the computers were large in size and were 
operated by trained personnel. To the users it was a remote and mysterious object having 

no direct communication with the users. Jobs
 were submitted in the form of punched 
cards or paper tape and outputs were collected
 in the form of computer printouts. The 
submitted jobs were executed by the computer one after the other, which is referred to as 
batch mode of data processing. In this scenario, there was long delay between the 
submission of jobs and receipt of the results.  

 
In the 1960s, computer systems were still centr
alize, but users provided with direct access through interactive terminals connected by point-to-point low-speed data links with the 
computer. In this situation, a large number of users, some of them located in remote 

locations could simultaneous
ly access the centralized 
computer in time-division 
multiplexed mode. The users could now get 
immediate interactive feedback from the 
computer and correct errors immediately. Fo
llowing the introduction of on-line terminals 

and time-sharing operating systems, remote terminals were used to  use the central 

computer.  

 
With the advancement of VLSI technology, a
nd particularly, after the invention of microprocessors in the early 1970s, the computers became smaller in size and less 

expensive, but with significant increase in 
processing power. New breed of low-cost computers known as mini and personal com
puters were introduced. Instead of having a single central computer, an or
ganization could now afford to own a number of computers 
located in different departments and sections.  

 
Side-by-side, riding on the same VLSI technology the 
communication technology also advanced leading to the worldwide deployment of telephone 
network, developed 
primarily for voice communication. An or
ganization having computers located geographically dispersed locations wanted to have data communications for diverse 
applications. Communication was required among the machines of the same kind for 
collaboration, for the use of common software or data or for sharing of some costly 
resources. This led to the development of computer networks by successful integration 
and cross-fertilization of communications and geographi
cally dispersed computing 
facilities. One significant development was 
the APPANET (Advanced Research Projects 
Agency Network). Starting with four-node experimental network in 1969, it has 

subsequently grown into a network several thousand computers spanning half of the 
globe, from Hawaii to Sweden. Most of the present-day concepts such as packet 

switching evolved from the ARPANET project. The low bandwidth (3KHz on a voice grade line) telephone network was the only generally available communication system 
available for this type of network. 
 
 
 Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur The bandwidth was clearly a problem, and in
 the late 1970s and early 80s another new communication technique known as Local Area Networks (LANs) evolved, which helped 
computers to communicate at high speed ove
r a small geographical area. In the later 
years use of optical fiber and satellite communication allowed high-speed data communications over long distances.   1.1.3 Network Technologies 
There is no generally accepted taxonomy into which all com
puter networks fit, but two 
dimensions stand out as important: 
Transmission Technology and Scale. The classifications based on these two basic approaches are considered in this section. 1.1.3.1 Classification Based on Transmission Technology 
Computer networks can be 
broadly categorized into two types based on transmission 
technologies:  Broadcast networks  Point-to-point networks 1.2.3.1.1 Broadcast Networks 
Broadcast network have a single communication channel that is shared by all the 
machines on the network as shown in Fi
gs.1.1.2 and 1.1.3. All the machines on the 
network receive short messages, called packets 
in certain contexts, sent by any machine. 
An address field within the packet specifi
es the intended recipient. Upon receiving a 
packet, machine checks the address field. If pa
cket is intended for itself, it processes the 
packet; if packet is not intended for itself it is simply ignored.         Figure 1.1.2 Example of a broadcast network based on shared bus   
 Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur         
      
      
  Figure 1.1.3 Example of a broadcast network based on satellite communication This system generally also allows possibility of addressing the packet to all destinations 
(all nodes on the network). When such a p
acket is transmitted and received by all the 
machines on the network. This mode of operation is known as 
Broadcast Mode. Some 
Broadcast systems also supports transmission 
to a sub-set of machines, something known 
as Multicasting
. 1.2.3.1.2 Point-to-Point Networks
 A network based on point-to-point communication is shown in Fig. 1.1.4. The end devices that wish to communicate are called 
stations. The switching devices are called 
nodes. Some Nodes connect to other nodes and some
 to attached stations. It uses FDM or 
TDM for node-to-node communication. Ther
e may exist multiple paths between a 

source-destination pair for better network reliability. The switching nodes are not 
concerned with the contents of data. Their pur
pose is to provide a switching facility that 
will move data from node to node 
until they reach the destination. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur     
      
      
     Figure 1.1.4 Communication network based on point-to-point communication As a general rule (although there are many ex
ceptions), smaller, geographically localized 
networks tend to use broadcasting, whereas larger networks normally use are point-to-
point communication. 1.1.3.2 Classification based on Scale Alternative criteria for classifying networks 
are their scale. They are divided into Local 
Area (LAN), Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN).  
1.1.3.2.1 Local Area Network (LAN)
 LAN is usually privately owned and links the devices in a single office, building or campus of up to few kilometers in size. Th
ese are used to share resources (may be 
hardware or software resources) and to exchange informa
tion. LANs are distinguished from other kinds of networks by three categ
ories: their size, transmission technology and 
topology.   LANs are restricted in size, which mean
s that their worst-case transmission time 
is bounded and known in advance. Hence this is more reliable as compared to MAN and 
WAN. Knowing this bound makes it possible to
 use certain kinds of design that would 
not otherwise be possible. It also simplifies network management. 
Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur  Figure 1.1.5 Local Area Network
 LAN typically used transmission technology 
consisting of single cable to which all machines are connected. Traditional LANs r
un at speeds of 10 to 100 Mbps (but now much higher speeds can be achieved). The most common LAN topol
ogies are bus, ring and star. A typical LAN is shown in Fig. 1.1.5.   Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur 1.1.3.2.2 Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) 
MAN is designed to extend over the entire city. It may be a single ne
twork as a cable TV 
network or it may be means of connecting a 
number of LANs into a larger network so that resources may be shared as shown in
 Fig. 1.1.6. For example, a company can use a 
MAN to connect the LANs in all its offices 
in a city. MAN is wholly owned and operated by a private company or may be a service provided by a public company. 
 Figure 1.1.6 Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN)   The main reason for distinguishing MANs as 
a special category is that a standard has 
been adopted for them. It is 
DQDB (Distributed Queue Dual Bus) or IEEE 802.6.
 1.1.3.2.3 Wide Area Network (WAN) 
WAN provides long-distance transmission of 
data, voice, image and information over 
large geographical areas that may comprise a 
country, continent or even the whole world. In contrast to LANs, WANs may utilize public
, leased or private communication devices, 
usually in combinations, and 
can therefore span an unlimite
d number of miles as shown 
Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur in Fig. 1.1.7. A WAN that is wholly owned and used by a single company is often 
referred to as 
enterprise network.  Figure 1.1.7 Wide Area Network  1.1.3.2.4 The Internet Internet is a collection of ne
tworks or network of networks. Various networks such as 
LAN and WAN connected through suitable hardware and software to work in a seamless manner. Schematic diagram of the Internet
 is shown in Fig. 1.1.8. It allows various applications such as e-mail, file transfer, remote log-in, World Wide Web, Multimedia, 
etc run across the internet. The basic differe
nce between WAN and Internet is that WAN 
is owned by a single organization while internet is not so
. But with the time the line 
between WAN and Internet is shrinking, and these terms are sometimes used 
interchangeably. Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur     
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      Figure 1.1.8 Internet Œ network of networks 1.1.4 Applications  In a short period of time co
mputer networks have become
 an indispensable part of business, industry, entertainment as well as a common-man's life. These applications 
have changed tremendously from time and th
e motivation for building these networks are 
all essentially economic and technological. 
Initially, computer network was developed for defense purpose, to have a secure communication network that can even withstan
d a nuclear attack. After a decade or so, companies, in various fields, started usi
ng computer networks for keeping track of inventories, monitor productivity, communication between their different branch offices located at different locations. For example, 
Railways started using computer networks by 
connecting their nationwide reservation counters 
to provide the facility of reservation and enquiry from any where across the country.  
And now after almost two decades, computer 
networks have entered a new dimension; 
they are now an integral part of the society and people. In 1990s, computer network started delivering services to private individuals at home. These services and motivation 
for using them are quite different. Some of th
e services are access to
 remote information, 
person-person communication, and interact
ive entertainment. So, some of the 
applications of computer networks that 
we can see around us today are as follows: Marketing and sales: Computer networks are used extensively in both marketing and 
sales organizations. Marketing professionals use them to collect, exchange, and analyze 
data related to customer needs and produc
t development cycles
. Sales application Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur includes teleshopping, which uses order-entry computers or telephones connected to order processing network, and online-reservation services for 
hotels, airlines and so on. Financial services
: Today's financial services ar
e totally depended on computer 
networks. Application includes credit history searches, foreign exchange and investment 
services, and electronic fund transfer, which allow user to 
transfer money without going 
into a bank (an automated teller machine is
 an example of electronic fund transfer, 
automatic pay-check is another). 
Manufacturing: Computer networks are used in
 many aspects of manufacturing 
including manufacturing process itself. Two of them that use 
network to provide essential 
services are computer-aided design (CAD) 
and computer-assisted manufacturing (CAM), 
both of which allow multiple users to
 work on a project simultaneously. 
Directory services
: Directory services allow list of files 
to be stored in central location to 
speed worldwide search operations. 
Information services
: A Network information service 
includes bulletin boards and data banks. A World Wide Web site offering techni
cal specification for a new product is an information service. 

Electronic data interchange (EDI): EDI allows business information, including 
documents such as purchase orders and invoice
s, to be transferred without using paper. Electronic mail: probably it's the most widely used
 computer networ
k application. Teleconferencing: Teleconferencing allows conference 
to occur without the participants 
being in the same place. Applications in
clude simple text conferencing (where 
participants communicate th
rough their normal keyboards and monitor) and video 
conferencing where participants can even see as
 well as talk to other fellow participants. 
Different types of equipments are used for 
video conferencing depending on what quality of the motion you want to capture (whether you 
want just to see the face of other fellow participants or do you want to see the exact facial expression).  Voice over IP: Computer networks are also used
 to provide voice communication. This kind of voice communication is pretty cheap as compared to the normal telephonic 
conversation.  Video on demand: Future services provided by the cable television networks may 
include video on request where a person can request for a particular movie or any clip at 
anytime he wish to see. 
 Summary: The main area of applications 
can be broadly classified into following 
categories:  
  Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur  Scientific and Technical Computing  Œ Client Server Model, Distributed Processing  Parallel Processing, Communication Media  Commercial
  Œ Advertisement, Telemark
eting, Teleconferencing Œ Worldwide Financial Services 
Œ   Network for the People 
(this is the most widely used application nowadays) Œ Telemedicine, Distance Education, A
ccess to Remote Information, Person-to-
Person Communication, Interactive Entertainment 
  1.1.5 Course Outline 
Over the years the subject of computer 
networks has grown with advancement of 
technology and the emergence of new technologie
s and new applications. In this course, this massive subject has been divided into
 comprehensible parts and arranged in a 
structured and logical manner. It is organized in the following eight modules: 
  Introduction  Data Communication Fundamentals 
 Data Link Control  Switched Communication Networks  
 Broadcast Communication Networks  
 Internetworking  
 Routing and Congestion Control  Network Security  Module 1:  Introduction
  In this module some of the basic aspects of computer networks are presented in two 

lessons. In lesson 1.1 the historical background of computer ne
tworks is presented. Then different type of networks and their classification on the basis of transmission technology 
and scale are considered. In the next section important applications of computer 
networks, which spans over different areas in a common man life are discussed. 
  Lesson 1.2 presents the important concepts of layering. The basic terminologies in 
the context of layered architecture are also covered in this section. Then this lesson 
provides an introduction of OSI layered architecture - Open System Interconnection Reference Model. Basic functionalities of different layers of OSI and concept of service access points and information exchange will also be dealt in this lesson. 
   Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Module 2: Data Communication Fundamentals 
This module is concerned with some of the im
portant issues of the physical layer, which 
provides services to the layer above it, namely the data link la
yer. In the data link layer, the data consists of 0s and 1s, which are organized into frames to be sent through some 
transmission media. It is nece
ssary to convert this data into another entity called signal.  
  After introducing the fundament
al model of communication, Lesson 2.1 
introduces the basic elements of communica
tion such as data, signal and channel characteristics. Different data types, concept of time do
main and frequency domain 
representation of signal, various channel characteristics such
 as bandwidth, bit interval and bit rate of a digital signal are considered in this section. 
 Lesson 2.2 introduces different transmissi
on media, which are broadly divided into two categories, namely guided and unguide
d media. Typical characteristics and uses 
of each type of media starting from twisted-pa
ir cables, coaxial cable, and optical fiber to 
line-of-sight and satellite
 communication have been covered in this lesson.    
Lesson 2.3 will introduce various sources of impairments, such as attenuation, 
distortion and noise, that a signal suffers as it passes through a communication media. This lesson also will introduce the concept 
of channel capacity, which specifies the amount of information that can
 be sent through a medium. 
 Lesson 2.4 deals with the transmission of di
gital signals, which involves encoding of data. Encoding of digital data involves two types of coding namely line coding and block 
coding. Various line coding techniques such as unipolar, polar, and bipolar and block coding techniques are presented in this lesson. Encoding of analog data involves conversion to digital form by using techni
ques like pulse code modulation and delta 
modulation, which are also discussed in this lesson.   Transmission of analog signals is discu
ssed in Lesson 2.5. It is necessary to perform modulation to convert analog data to
 analog signal. Various aspects of the three possible modulation techniques, namely am
plitude, phase and frequency have been discussed in this lesson. Similarly, to conve
rt digital data to analog signal, possible approaches such as amplitude, phase and fr
equency shift keying have been covered in 
lesson 2.6.   
Lesson 2.7 deals with various multiplexing 
techniques such as Frequency division 
multiplexing (FDM), time division multiplexing
 (TDM), Statistical TDM, Wave Division 
multiplexing (WDM) and Orthogonal Fre
quency Division Multiplexing (OFDM). 
 So, this module provides 
necessary background to the students for understanding the topics to be covered in the subsequent lessons dealing with different aspects of computer 
networks.   Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Module 3: Data Link Control In this module we shall discuss various aspe
cts of data link control has been considered. 
Lesson 3.1 deals with framing and synchroniza
tion along with how one can interface the machine to the media. Error 
detection and error correction 
techniques are presented in 
Lesson 3.2. Lesson 3.3 introduces various protocols used for flow control and error control. Finally, lesson 3.4 provides an overview of HDLC, the most popular data link 
control protocol.  Module 4: Switched Communication Networks
 In this module switched communication networ
ks has been considered. First, various 
switching
 techniques have been presented in Less
on 4.1. In this lesson various aspects of circuit switching and the operation of Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), which is based on circuit switching, have been discussed. Various aspects of message 
switching, packet switching and virtual circuit switching have been addressed in Lesson 

4.2. 
 Lesson 4.3 presents the Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) that defines a 
technology for carrying many signals of di
fferent capacities through a synchronous, flexible, optical hierarchy. It utilizes the e
normous bandwidth of optical fiber to achieve 
date transfer at a very high rate.  
X.25 is a packet-switched network developed by ITU-T in 1976. It defines how a 
packet-mode terminal can be 
interfaced to a packet netw
ork for data communication. 
However, X.25 does not satisfy the present day requirements of hi
gher data rate. To overcome these limitations, a new standard, known as 
frame relay was introduced. Lesson 4.4 introduces these two packet switching networks.  In the last section of this module, ATM
 (Asynchronous transfer mode), which can 
be used both as a LAN or WAN standard 
has been introduced. Various network devices used in ATM, concept of cell transfer and cell format have been discussed. 
   Module 5: Broadcast Communication Networks 
In Broadcast networks, one transmission media 
is shared by all the users and information 

is broadcast by an user into the medium. 
Some examples of br
oadcast communication networks are: 
 1. Local area network (LAN) 
2. Packet radio network 3. Cellular telephone network 4. Satellite Network   
 
 Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur These networks can be characterized by the following three parameters: 
 Transmission media 
 Topology  Medium Access control (MAC) Techniques 
 Characteristics of different transmissi
on media have been covered in Lesson 2.2. 
Topology and its interrelationship with the transmission medi
a will be considered in Lesson 5.1. In Lesson 5.2 we shall discuss different MAC techniques and the abovementioned networks have been discusse
d in the remaining six lessons of this 
module.  Module 6: Internetworking To make the computer networks more 
useful and suitable for many emerging 
applications, it is necessary to connect in
dividual heterogeneous networks, both LAN and 
WAN, distributed across the world using suitable hardware and software in such a way that it gives the user the illusion of 
a single network. Basic motivations behind 
internetworking are as follows: 

  To provide a link between networks.  To provide a route for delivery of data between processes on different networks.  To provide an accounting service that keeps track of the use of various networks and routers and also to ma
intain status information. 
 To accommodate a number of differences among the networks: 
o Addressing scheme 
o Maximum packet size 
o Network-access mechanism 
o Timeouts, Error recovery 
o Status reporting o Routing techniques o User-access control 
o Connection oriented/connectionless services  This module is concerned with internet
working, which allows communication across 
isolated network boundaries in a seamle
ss manner. Lesson 6.1 introduces various 

internetworking devices such as repeater/hub, bridge, router and gateway, which are used to interconnect separate LANs and WANs. Lesson 6.2 introduces IP addressing and 
various protocols at the IP layer and lesson 6.3 deals with Transmission Control and 
Application layer protocols such as Electronic mail, File transfer, and Remote login. 
  Module 7: Routing and Congestion Control When a packet travels from a source to a des
tination, it is likely to pass through several routers and normally there exist multiple paths between any two source-destination pairs. 

The routing function of the network layer decides which path a packet to follow from a 
source node to a destination node. For a c
onnectionless (datagram type) service, each 
Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur packet is routed independently, whereas for a virtual-circuit type
 of service, a route is set 
up at the beginning and all packets follow the same path. The attributes, which are 
expected from a routing function, are: 
correctness, simplicity, robustness, stability
, fairness 
and optimality and the routing algorithms can 
be classified based on different metrics.  Lesson 7.1 introduces various issues 
related to routing. In the subsequent three lessons three popular routing algorithms, namely 
Routing Information Protocol (RIP), 
Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) and Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) have been 
covered.   
 A packet switched network may be consider
ed as a network of queues. If the rate at which packets arrive and queue up exceeds 
the rate at which packets are disbursed, the 
queue size grows without bounds leading to long delay and buffer overflow. Ultimately, 

it may lead to deadlock, a cata
strophic situation in which the throughput drops to zero as shown in. The objective of the 
congestion control is to maintain the number of packets 
within the network or a region of network below the level at which queuing delays blow 
up. Various congestion control protocols have been covered in Lesson 7.5.  Module 8: Network Security With the ability to contact anybody from anyw
here and more and more people joining the 
internet with diverse applica
tions, network security has become a very important issue. 
People are now very concerned about communication in a secured manner through 
internet, which is essentially an insecu
re public network. Cryptography has been considered to be the solution to this problem. Suitable 
encryption/decryption
 techniques can be used for transfer of data through internet between any two hosts in a secured manner. Lesson 8.1 of this module provide
s an overview of the vast subject of Cryptography. Then lesion 8.2 presents how cryptography can be applied in a number of 
ways to achieve secured communication th
rough an insecure communication network. Moreover, many organizations have confidentia
l or proprietary information, such as trade 
secrets, product development plans, marketing 
strategies, etc., which should be protected 
from unauthorized access and modificati
on. Although cryptographic techniques can be used to protect data in transit, it does not protect data from digital 
pests and hackers. To accomplish this it is necessary to perform 
user authentication and access control to 

protect a private network from 
unauthorized traffic. This can 
be performed with the help of a firewall, which acts as an interfa
ce between a private network 
and an insecure public network. The functions Firewalls are elaborated in Lesson 8.3.  
  
 References: Textbooks: 1. Data Communications and Networking, Behrouz A. Forouzan, TMH 2. Data and Computer Communications, William Stallings, PHI 
3. Computer Networks, Andrew S. Tanenbaum, PHI 
 Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Reference books:  4. Wireless Communications; Principles a
nd Practice, Theodore E. Rappaport, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education 5. Satellite Communications, Timothy Pratt, 
Charles Bostian and Jeremy Allnutt, 2
nd Edition, Wiley 
6. Internetworking with TCP/IP; Principles, 
Protocols and Architecture, Douglas E. Commer, 3
rd Edition, Prentice Hall of India 7. Data Compression; The Complete
 Reference, David Solomon, 3
rd Edition, Springer 
8. Network Security; Private Communication in
 a Public World, CharlieKaufman, Radia 
Perlmon and Mike Speciner, 2
nd Edition, Prentice Hall of India   
Review Questions 
Fill in the blanks  1. A computer network interconnects 
a number of _____________ computers. 
2. Computer network emerges due to the de
velopment between two fields, namely 
_____________ and _____________. 3. Three main categories of networks are _____________, _____________ and 
_____________. 4. _____________ are privately owned while _____________ are usually owned by government 
5. LAN operates at a _____________ speed with _____________error rate than WANs. 
6. Internet is _____________ of networks. 7. Initially, computer network was developed for ________________. 
    Short answers  Q-1. Which Technologies of this age had led 
to the emergence of computer network? 
  Ans:  The technologies are Computer tec
hnology and Communication technology with the support of VLSI Technology. 

  
Q-2. What are the two broad classifications
 under which Networks can be divided? 
  
Ans: All computer networks fit in on
e of the two dimensions namely,  
a). Transmission Technology, this focuses on the basic unde
rlying physical network, for e.g. whether the nodes share a communication me
dia or each pair of node has a separate dedicated link. 
b). Scale, it focuses on the scale of network how large is your network.   Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Q-3. Mention different categories of computer networks (
on the basis of scale) and distinguish one from the other. 
  Ans: Local Area Network (LAN)
: It is privately owned communication systems that 
cover a small area, say a building or a comple
x of buildings. Length is about 10 meters to 
few kilometers and operates at a high sp
eed like 10 MBPS to 1000 MBPS. It has very 
low error rate (1:10
11).   Metropolitan Area Network (MAN):
 It is public or privately owned communication 
system that typically covers a complete 
city. Speed is about 10 MBPS and follows DQDB (Distributed Queue Double Bus) standard. Its reliability is moderate. 
  
Wide Area Network (WAN)
: It covers a large geographical area and usually owned by a state. Data transfer rate is low (few KBPS 
to 10 MBPS) and error rate is much higher. 
  
Q-4. What are the two types of Transmissi
on technologies, basis on which computer 
networks can be categorized? 

Ans: Broadly there are two types of transmission technology: 
1. Broadcast networks
: a single communication channel that is shared by all the 
machines on the network 
2. Point-to-point networks
: This network consists of many connections between 
individual pairs of machines. To go from th
e source to destination a message (or packet) 
may have to visit one or more intermediate machines 
Q-5. What is Internet? 
  
Ans:  Internet is a collection of networks 
or network of networks. Various networks such as LAN and WAN connected through suitable hardware and software to work in a 
seamless manner. It allows various applications such as e-mail; file transfer, remote log-

in, World Wide Web, Multimedia, etc run across the internet. 

  
Q-6. How do you account for higher reliability and scalability of computer network? 

  
Ans:  Computer network can have a large number of computers, which can share 
software, database and other resources. In the event of fa
ilure of one computer, its 
workload can be taken over by other computers. So, it provides higher reliability than 

centralized computing system.  

  Requirement of software, hardware, da
tabase etc. increases gradually. In centralized computing system, if one computer 
is not able to serve the purpose, we have 
to replace it by new one. Replacement of new computer requires lot of investment and 
effort, which can be avoided in computer network system. If there is need for more, one 
can buy another powerful computer, add it to 
computer network and use it. The various 

resources like computers, peripherals, et
c. can be added in a scalable manner. 
Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur  Q-7. Mention important bene
fits of computer network. 
  
Ans:  Important benefits of computer networks are: 
i) Resource sharing ii) Powerful communication medium 
iii) Higher reliability 
iv) Higher flexibility 
v) Lower cost vi) Incremental expansion 
  
 
 
 
Q-8. What are the main categories based on wh
ich applications of computer network can 

be categorized? 

  
Ans: The main areas under which the applications for computer network can be 
categorized are as follows: 

  Scientific and Technical Computing Œ Client Server Model, Distributed Processing  Œ Parallel Processing, Communication Media Commercial 
Œ Advertisement, Telemark
eting, Teleconferencing Œ Worldwide Financial Services 
 Network for the People 
(this is the most widely used application nowadays) Œ Telemedicine, Distance Education, Acce
ss to Remote Information, Person-to-
Person Communication, Interactive Entertainment 
  Q-9 How is computer networks used in 
marketing and sales, financial services, teleconferencing? 

  
Ans: Computer network have led to
 a new age of all of these services. They have helped 
in the following way to individual sector:  
Marketing and sales: Computer networks are used extensively in both marketing and 
sales organizations. Marketing professionals use them to collect, exchange, and analyze 
data related to customer needs and produc
t development cycles
. Sales application includes teleshopping, which uses order-entry computers or telephones connected to order processing network, and online-reservation services for 
hotels, airlines and so on. Financial services
: Today's financial services ar
e totally depended on computer networks. Application includes credit history searches, foreign exchange and investment services, and electronic fund transfer, which allow user to transfer money without going 
into a bank (an automated teller machine is
 an example of electronic fund transfer, 
automatic pay-check is another). 
Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur Teleconferencing: Teleconferencing allows conference to occur without the participants being in the same place. Applications in
clude simple text conferencing (where 
participants communicate through their normal keyboard
s and monitor) and video 
conferencing where participants can even see as
 well as talk to other fellow participants. 
Different types of equipments are used for 
video conferencing depending on what quality of the motion you want to capture (whether you 
want just to see the face of other fellow participants or do you want to see the exact facial expression).   Version 2 CSE   IIT, Kharagpur 